Effectiveness of mRNA COVID-19 vaccine booster doses against Omicron severe outcomes.$$We estimated the effectiveness of booster doses of monovalent mRNA COVID-19 vaccines against Omicron-associated severe outcomes among adults in Ontario, Canada. We used a test-negative design to estimate vaccine effectiveness (VE) against hospitalization or death among SARS-CoV-2-tested adults aged ≥50 years from January 2 to October 1, 2022, stratified by age and time since vaccination. We also compared VE during BA.1/BA.2 and BA.4/BA.5 sublineage predominance. We included 11,160 cases and 62,880 tests for test-negative controls. Depending on the age group, compared to unvaccinated adults, VE was 91-98% 7-59 days after a third dose, waned to 76-87% after ≥240 days, was restored to 92-97% 7-59 days after a fourth dose, and waned to 86-89% after ≥120 days. VE was lower and declined faster during BA.4/BA.5 versus BA.1/BA.2 predominance, particularly after ≥120 days. Here we show that booster doses of monovalent mRNA COVID-19 vaccines restored strong protection against severe outcomes for at least 3 months after vaccination. Across the entire study period, protection declined slightly over time, but waned more during BA.4/BA.5 predominance.
The dynamics of novel corona virus disease via stochastic epidemiological model with vaccination.$$During the past two years, the novel coronavirus pandemic has dramatically affected the world by producing 4.8 million deaths. Mathematical modeling is one of the useful mathematical tools which has been used frequently to investigate the dynamics of various infectious diseases. It has been observed that the nature of the novel disease of coronavirus transmission differs everywhere, implying that it is not deterministic while having stochastic nature. In this paper, a stochastic mathematical model has been investigated to study the transmission dynamics of novel coronavirus disease under the effect of fluctuated disease propagation and vaccination because effective vaccination programs and interaction of humans play a significant role in every infectious disease prevention. We develop the epidemic problem by taking into account the extended version of the susceptible-infected-recovered model and with the aid of a stochastic differential equation. We then study the fundamental axioms for existence and uniqueness to show that the problem is mathematically and biologically feasible. The extinction of novel coronavirus and persistency are examined, and sufficient conditions resulted from our investigation. In the end, some graphical representations support the analytical findings and present the effect of vaccination and fluctuated environmental variation.
Predictors of satisfaction with emergency remote teaching (ERT) during Covid 19 among undergraduate students of Nigeria's premier university.$Affect;Attitude;Cognitive engagement;Emergency remote teaching;Motivation;Perceived behavioural control;Undergraduate students.$University of Ibadan, Nigeria's premier university commenced emergency remote teaching (ERT) in February 2021 in other to control the spread of Covid-19. After a full session of learning through this mode, this paper investigated determinants of undergraduate students' satisfaction with the institution's ERT. Proportional-to-size sampling was used in obtaining the sample size of 366, while respondents were selected using convenience sampling. Data collection was through a structured questionnaire and data were collected on the factors-attitude, affect, motivation; perceived behavioural control (accessibility, self-efficacy, ease of use); and cognitive engagement. Findings showed that all the variables except accessibility had significant relationships with students' satisfaction. However, only motivation to learn (<i>β</i> = 0.140, <i>p</i> = 0.019) and cognitive engagement (<i>β</i> = 0.154, <i>p</i> = 0.005) were significant predictors of students' satisfaction with the ERT. The study emphasized the need for the institution to take steps towards ensuring that online learning is interesting and motivating for students, such that when faced with such abrupt change in learning mode in the future, students are motivated to learn and are willing to invest their mental effort into understanding their academic work, which may ultimately improve their satisfaction with the learning process.
A preregistered vignette experiment on determinants of health data sharing behavior <i>Willingness to donate sensor data, medical records, and biomarkers</i>.$cancer research;contextual integrity;data sharing;health research;privacy attitudes;public policy.$The COVID-19 pandemic has spotlighted the importance of high-quality data for empirical health research and evidence-based political decision-making. To leverage the full potential of these data, a better understanding of the determinants and conditions under which people are willing to share their health data is critical. Building on the privacy theory of contextual integrity, the privacy calculus, and previous findings regarding different data types and recipients, we argue that established social norms shape the acceptance of novel practices of data collection and use. To investigate the willingness to share health data, we conducted a preregistered vignette experiment. The scenarios experimentally varied the vignette dimensions by data type, recipient, and research purpose. While some findings contradict our hypotheses, the results indicate that all three dimensions affected respondents' data sharing decisions. Additional analyses suggest that institutional and social trust, privacy concerns, technical affinity, altruism, age, and device ownership influence the willingness to share health data.
MXene-Based Aptameric Fluorosensor for Sensitive and Rapid Detection of COVID-19.$COVID-19;MXene nanosheets;cellular imaging;fluorosensors;spike proteins.$The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2)-caused COVID-19 pandemic has rapidly escalated into the largest global health emergency, which pushes to develop detection kits for the detection of COVID-19 with high sensitivity, specificity, and fast analysis. Here, aptamer-functionalized MXene nanosheet is demonstrated as a novel bionanosensor that detects COVID-19. Upon binding to the spike receptor binding domain of SARS-CoV-2, the aptamer probe is released from MXene surface restoring the quenched fluorescence. The performances of the fluorosensor are evaluated using antigen protein, cultured virus, and swab specimens from COVID-19 patients. It is evidenced that this sensor can detect SARS-CoV-2 spike protein at final concentration of 38.9 fg mL<sup>-1</sup> and SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus (limit of detection: 7.2 copies) within 30 min. Its application for clinical samples analysis is also demonstrated successfully. This work offers an effective sensing platform for sensitive and rapid detection of COVID-19 with high specificity.
Care seeking for under-five children and vaccine perceptions during the first two waves of the COVID-19 pandemic in Lagos State, Nigeria: a qualitative exploratory study.$COVID-19 pandemic;care-seeking;lockdown;under-five children;vaccine hesistancy.$To explore healthcare seeking practices for children and the context-specific direct and indirect effects of public health interventions during the first two waves of COVID-19 in Lagos State, Nigeria. We also explored decision-making around vaccine acceptance at the start of COVID-19 vaccine roll-out in Nigeria.
Incidence and Predictors of COVID-19 Infection in Prison Healthcare Workers.$$To assess the predictors of SARS-CoV-2 infection among correctional healthcare workers (HCWs).
Impact of Vaccination and the Omicron Variant on COVID-19-related Chest CT Findings: A Multicenter Study.$$Background Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) omicron variant has a higher infection rate than previous variants but results in less severe disease. However, the impacts of omicron and vaccination on chest CT findings are difficult to evaluate. Purpose To investigate the impact of vaccination status and predominant variant on chest CT findings, diagnostic and severity scores in multicenter sample of consecutive patients referred to emergency departments for proven COVID-19. Materials and Methods This retrospective, multicenter study included adults referred to 93 emergency departments with SARS-CoV-2 infection according to RT-PCR and known vaccination status between July 2021 and March 2022. Clinical data and structured chest CT reports including semiquantitative diagnostic and severity scores following the French Society of Radiology-Thoracic Imaging Society guidelines were extracted from a teleradiology database. Observations were divided into 'delta-predominant', 'transition', and 'omicron-predominant' periods. Associations between scores and variant and vaccination status were investigated with Chi-square tests and ordinal regressions. Multivariable analyses evaluated the influence of omicron variant and vaccination status on the diagnostic and severity scores. Results Overall, 3876 patients were included (median age: 68 years [Q1-Q3: 54-80], 1695 females). Diagnostic and severity scores were associated with the predominant variant (delta- versus omicron-predominant, Chi-square=112.4 and 33.7, both <i>P</i><.001) and vaccination (Chi-square=243.6 and 210, both <i>P</i><.001) and their interaction (Chi-square=4.3, <i>P</i>=.04 and Chi-square=28.7, <i>P</i><.001, respectively). In multivariable analyses, omicron variant was associated with lower odds of typical CT findings than delta variant (OR=0.46, <i>P</i><.001). Two and three vaccine doses were associated with lower odds of demonstrating typical CT findings (OR=0.32 and OR=0.20, both <i>P</i><.001), and of having high severity score (OR=0.47 and OR=0.33, both <i>P</i><.001), compared with unvaccinated patients. Conclusion Both the omicron variant and vaccination were associated with less typical chest CT manifestations for COVID-19 and lesser extent of disease. See also the editorial by Yoon and Goo in this issue.
Rapid, sensitive, and specific detection of SARS-CoV-2 in nasopharyngeal swab samples of suspected patients using a novel one-step loop-mediated isothermal amplification (one-step LAMP) technique.$Detection;One-step LAMP;One-step RT-qPCR;Rapid;SARS-CoV-2;Sensitive.$In the absence of effective antiviral drugs or vaccines, early and accurate detection of SARS-CoV-2 infection is essential to the COVID-19 pandemic. This study developed and evaluated a novel rapid One-Step LAMP assay to directly detect the SARS-CoV-2 RNA from nasopharyngeal (NP) swab samples of patients with suspected SARS-CoV-2 infection living in deprived areas in comparison to One-Step Real-time PCR.
An investigation of coronaphobia and physical activity among patients with rheumatoid arthritis.$Coronaphobia;physical activity;rheumatoid arthritis..$This study aims to investigate coronaphobia and physical activity levels in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
COVID-19 health information trust and prejudicial attitudes predict healthcare disruptions in the first year of COVID-19 among people living with HIV.$COVID-19;HIV;Health Disruptions;Prejudice;Trust in health information.$Cross-sectional studies have reported that people living with HIV experienced disruptions to social relationships and healthcare during the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, individuals with less trust in public health sources of COVID-19 information as well as those who held greater COVID-19 prejudicial attitudes experienced greater healthcare disruptions in the early months of COVID-19. To examine changes in trust and prejudicial attitudes in relation to healthcare disruptions during the first year of COVID-19, we followed a closed cohort of 115 men and 26 women ages 18 to 36 living with HIV over the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic. Findings confirmed that a majority of individuals continued to experience disruptions to their social relationships and healthcare over the course of the first year of COVID-19. In addition, trust in COVID-19 information from the CDC and state health department diminished over the year as did COVID-19 prejudicial attitudes. Regression models showed that lower trust in the CDC and health department and greater prejudicial attitudes toward COVID-19 early in the pandemic predicted greater healthcare disruptions over the year. In addition, greater trust in the CDC and health department early in COVID-19 predicted better antiretroviral therapy adherence later in the year. Results support an urgent need to regain and sustain trust in public health authorities among vulnerable populations.
Estimating the burden of influenza-attributable severe acute respiratory infections on the hospital system in Metropolitan France, 2012-2018.$Burden;Hospital;Influenza;Severe acute respiratory infections (SARI);Surveillance.$To date, estimating the burden of seasonal influenza on the hospital system in France has been restricted to influenza diagnoses in patients (estimated hospitalization rate of 35/100,000 on average from 2012 to 2018). However, many hospitalizations for diagnosed respiratory infections (e.g. pneumonia, acute bronchitis) occur without concurrent screening for virological influenza, especially in the elderly. Specifically, we aimed to estimate the burden of influenza on the French hospital system by examining the proportion of severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) attributable to influenza.
Household Secondary Attack Rate of COVID-19 among Healthcare Workers and Related Factors.$COVID-19;Healthcare worker;Secondary attack rate.$The risk for transmission of COVID-19 to people in close contact with infected people, especially healthcare workers, has not been well estimated. Therefore the present study was conducted to assess the household secondary attack rate (SAR) of COVID-19 among healthcare workers and related factors.
Association between interleukin-10 gene polymorphisms (rs1800871, rs1800872, and rs1800896) and severity of infection in different SARS-CoV-2 variants.$COVID-19;Interleukin-10 gene polymorphisms;SARS-CoV-2 variants.$Polymorphisms in the interleukin-10 (IL10) gene have been linked to the severity of the patients infected with the viral infections. This study aimed to assess if the IL10 gene polymorphisms rs1800871, rs1800872, and rs1800896 were linked to coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19) mortality in different severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) variants in the Iranian population.
Results of a systematic review and meta-analysis of early studies on ivermectin in SARS-CoV-2 infection.$COVID-19;Ivermectin;Meta-analysis;SARS-CoV-2;Systematic review.$Ivermectin, an antiparasitic drug, has been repurposed for COVID-19 treatment during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Although its antiviral efficacy was confirmed early in vitro and in preclinical studies, its clinical efficacy remained ambiguous. Our purpose was to assess the efficacy of ivermectin in terms of time to viral clearance based on the meta-analysis of available clinical trials at the closing date of the data search period, one year after the start of the pandemic. This meta-analysis was reported by following the PRISMA guidelines and by using the PICO format for formulating the question. The study protocol was registered on PROSPERO. Embase, MEDLINE (via PubMed), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), bioRvix, and medRvix were searched for human studies of patients receiving ivermectin therapy with control groups. No language or publication status restrictions were applied. The search ended on 1/31/2021 exactly one year after WHO declared the public health emergency on novel coronavirus. The meta-analysis of three trials involving 382 patients revealed that the mean time to viral clearance was 5.74 days shorter in case of ivermectin treatment compared to the control groups [WMD = -5.74, 95% CI (-11.1, -0.39), p = 0.036]. Ivermectin has significantly reduced the time to viral clearance in mild to moderate COVID-19 diseases compared to control groups. However, more eligible studies are needed for analysis to increase the quality of evidence of ivermectin use in COVID-19.
Risk of thromboembolism in patients with COVID-19 who are using hormonal contraception: a Cochrane systematic review.$COVID-19;hormonal contraception.$The coronavirus disease COVID-19 is associated with an increased risk of thrombotic events. Individuals with COVID-19 using hormonal contraception could be at additional risk for thromboembolism, but evidence is sparse.
Evaluation of lateral flow and ELISA techniques for detecting IgG and IgM antibodies in COVID-19 cases in Türkiye.$COVID-19;SARS-CoV-2;antibody;enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay;lateral flow assay.$Antibody testing can complement molecular assays for detecting COVID-19.
Exposure risk management: Personal protective equipment and the risk of accidents occurring during aerosol generating procedures applied to COVID-19 patients.$$COVID-19 is considered to be very contagious as it can be spread through multiple ways. Therefore, exposure risk of healthcare workers (HCWs) treating COVID-19 patients is a highly salient topic in exposure risk management. From a managerial perspective, wearing personal protective equipment and the risk of accidents occurring during aerosol generating procedures applied to COVID-19 patients are two interconnected issues encountered in all COVID-19 hospitals.
Clinical efficacy of probiotics in the treatment of patients with COVID-19: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.$COVID-19;meta-analysis;mortality;probiotics;randomized controlled trial;severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2.$This study was conducted to assess the clinical efficacy of probiotics in the treatment of patients with COVID-19.
Prevalence of grief symptoms and disorders in the time of COVID-19 pandemic: A meta-analysis.$COVID-19;grief;meta-analysis;prevalence.$Millions of people worldwide are mourning the loss of loved ones due to the COVID-19 epidemic, which may adversely impact their mental health. This meta-analysis aimed to investigate pandemic grief symptoms and disorders for developing policy, practice, and research priorities. The databases of Cochrane, Embase, Ovid-MEDLINE, WHO COVID-19, NCBI SARS-CoV-2, Scopus, Web of Science, CINAHL, and Science Direct were comprehensively searched until July 31, 2022. The Joanna Briggs Institute's and Hoy's criteria were used to evaluate the studies. A pooled prevalence was presented in a forest plot figure with a corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) and prediction interval. Between-study heterogeneity was measured using the I<sup>2</sup> and Q statistics. Variations in the prevalence estimates in different subgroups were examined by moderator meta-analysis. The search identified 3677 citations, of which 15 studies involving 9289 participants were included in the meta-analysis. The pooled prevalence rate of grief symptoms was 45.1% (95%CI: 32.6%-57.5%), and grief disorder was 46.4% (95%CI: 37.4%-55.5%). Grief symptoms were significantly higher in <6 months (45.8%; 95%CI: 26.3%-65.3%) compared to the period of more than 6 months. Unfortunately, moderator analyses for grief disorders could not be performed due to limited studies. The prevalence of grief problems during the pandemic was substantially higher than in non-pandemic conditions; therefore, it is crucial to strengthen bereavement support to reduce psychological distress. The results provide a foundation for nurses and healthcare workers to anticipate a heightened need for support and provision of bereavement care in the post-pandemic era.
Evaluation of MicroRNAs expression pattern (miR-28, miR-181a, miR-34a, and miR-31) in Patients with COVID-19 Admitted to ICU, and Diabetic COVID-19 patients.$$MicroRNAs, or miRNAs, with regulatory performance in inflammatory responses and infection are the prevalent manifestations of severe Coronavirus disease (COVID-19). This study aimed to evaluate whether PBMC miRNAs are diagnostic biomarkers to screen the ICU COVID-19 and diabetic-COVID-19 subjects.
Hematopoietic cell transplantation and cellular therapies in Europe 2021. The second year of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. A Report from the EBMT Activity Survey.$$In 2021, 47,412 HCT (19,806 (42%) allogeneic and 27,606 (58%) autologous) in 43,109 patients were reported by 694 European centers. 3494 patients received advanced cellular therapies, 2524 of which were CAR-T treatments, an additional 3245 received DLI. Changes compared to the previous year were CAR-T treatment (+35%), allogeneic HCT +5.4%, autologous HCT +3.9%, more pronounced in non-malignant disorders. Main indications for allogeneic HCT were myeloid malignancies 10,745 (58%), lymphoid malignancies 5127 (28%) and non-malignant disorders 2501 (13%). Main indications for autologous HCT were lymphoid malignancies 22,129 (90%) and solid tumors 1635 (7%). In allogeneic HCT, use of haploidentical donors decreased by -0.9% while use of unrelated and sibling donors increased by +4.3% and +9%. Cord blood HCT decreased by -5.8%. Pediatric HCT increased overall by +5.6% (+6.9% allogeneic and +1.6% autologous). Increase in the use of CAR-T was mainly restricted to high-income countries. The drop in HCT activity reported in 2020 partially recovered in 2021, the second year of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. The transplant community confronted with the pandemic challenge, continued in providing patients access to treatment. This annual EBMT report reflects current activities useful for health care resource planning.
"It was just one moment that I felt like I was being judged": Pregnant and postpartum black Women's experiences of personal and group-based racism during the COVID-19 pandemic.$Birth outcomes;Black birthing people;Black women;Intersectionality;Maternity care;Prenatal care;Racism.$Racial inequities in maternal and child health outcomes persist: Black women and birthing people experience higher rates of adverse outcomes than their white counterparts. Similar inequities are seen in coronavirus disease (COVID-19) mortality rates. In response, we sought to explore the intersections of racism and the COVID-19 pandemic impact on the daily lives and perinatal care experiences of Black birthing people.
Image-derived input functions from dynamic <sup>15</sup>O-water PET scans using penalised reconstruction.$15O–water PET;Cerebral blood flow;Image-derived input function;PET;Partial volume correction.$Quantitative positron emission tomography (PET) scans of the brain typically require arterial blood sampling but this is complicated and logistically challenging. One solution to remove the need for arterial blood sampling is the use of image-derived input functions (IDIFs). Obtaining accurate IDIFs, however, has proved to be challenging, mainly due to the limited resolution of PET. Here, we employ penalised reconstruction alongside iterative thresholding methods and simple partial volume correction methods to produce IDIFs from a single PET scan, and subsequently, compare these to blood-sampled input curves (BSIFs) as ground truth. Retrospectively we used data from sixteen subjects with two dynamic <sup>15</sup>O-labelled water PET scans and continuous arterial blood sampling: one baseline scan and another post-administration of acetazolamide.
Surgical masks and filtering facepiece class 2 respirators (FFP2) have no major physiological effects at rest and during moderate exercise at 3000 m altitude. A randomised controlled trial.$Arterial blood gas;COVID-19;Cognition;High altitude;Hypobaric chamber;Personal protective equipment.$During the COVID-19 pandemic, the use of face masks has been recommended or enforced in several situations, however their effects on physiological parameters and cognitive performance at high altitude are unknown.
Pilot Study on the Impact of Gratitude Journaling or Cognitive Strategies on Health Care Workers.$COVID-19;Health care workers;cognitive strategies;gratitude;mental health.$The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly impacted the mental well-being of health care workers (HCWs). This study assessed the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of two psychological interventions, gratitude journaling or cognitive strategies, on pediatric HCWs.
Exploring the experiences of loneliness in adults with mental health problems: A participatory qualitative interview study.$$Loneliness is associated with many mental health conditions, as both a potential causal and an exacerbating factor. Richer evidence about how people with mental health problems experience loneliness, and about what makes it more or less severe, is needed to underpin research on strategies to help address loneliness.
A tris(2-aminoethyl)amine-based zinc complex as a highly water-soluble drug carrier for the anti-COVID-19 drug favipiravir: a joint experimental and theoretical study.$$Tris(2-aminoethyl)amine (tren) coordinates to a Zn(II) ion to form the [Zn(tren)]<sup>2+</sup> cation that accepts a monodentate favipiravir (FAV) anion. The results of this work show that the FAV anion is capable of binding to the [Zn(tren)]<sup>2+</sup> cation through either a nitrogen or an oxygen atom (<i>N</i>/<i>O</i>-coordination). The energy decomposition analysis shows that, interestingly, both the strength and nature of the bonds between the [Zn(tren)]<sup>2+</sup> cation and the <i>N</i>/<i>O</i>-coordinated FAV anion are almost the same. X-ray crystal structure determinations confirmed the existence of two types of cations in the solid state, [Zn(tren)(<i>N</i>-FAV)]<sup>+</sup> and [Zn(tren)(<i>O</i>-FAV)]<sup>+</sup>. The NMR data, in a DMSO solution, were consistent with either the <i>N</i>-coordinated or the <i>O</i>-coordinated complex, but not a mixture of the two linkage isomers. The theoretical data indicated that the [Zn(tren)(<i>N</i>-FAV)]<sup>+</sup> and [Zn(tren)(<i>O</i>-FAV)]<sup>+</sup> cations have very similar stability in the gas phase, and in H<sub>2</sub>O, CH<sub>3</sub>OH, and DMSO solutions, and can also easily convert from one linkage isomer to the other. The experimental and theoretical data showed that, upon protonation of the above cations under acidic conditions (pH ≈ 3 to 5.5), the drug FAV will be easily released and replaced by a Cl<sup>-</sup> anion, or an H<sub>2</sub>O molecule, which will coordinate to the zinc atom showing the potential of [Zn(tren)]<sup>2+</sup> as a safe drug vehicle. Molecular docking studies using two well-known molecular docking packages show the relatively strong binding interactions of the [Zn(tren)(<i>N</i>-FAV)]<sup>+</sup> and [Zn(tren)(<i>O</i>-FAV)]<sup>+</sup> cations with DNA and viral protein macromolecules.
Understanding who talks about what: comparison between the information treatment in traditional media and online discussions.$$We study the dynamics of interactions between a traditional medium, the New York Times journal, and its followers in Twitter, using a massive dataset. It consists of the metadata of the articles published by the journal during the first year of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the posts published in Twitter by a large set of followers of the @nytimes account along with those published by a set of followers of several other media of different kind. The dynamics of discussions held in Twitter by exclusive followers of a medium show a strong dependence on the medium they follow: the followers of @FoxNews show the highest similarity to each other and a strong differentiation of interests with the general group. Our results also reveal the difference in the attention payed to U.S. presidential elections by the journal and by its followers, and show that the topic related to the "Black Lives Matter" movement started in Twitter, and was addressed later by the journal.
Community stressors and coping mechanisms in accessing the health system during a double crisis: a qualitative case study from Yangon Region, Myanmar.$COVID-19;Coping mechanisms;Health care services;Health system;Pandemic.$Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and political crisis, Myanmar's health system has suspended routine services while struggling to respond to the pandemic. Many people who need continuous care, like pregnant women and people with chronic illnesses, have been facing challenges in seeking and receiving essential health services. This study explored community health seeking practices and coping mechanisms, including their views on health system stressors.
Understanding COVID-19 in children: immune determinants and post-infection conditions.$$Coronavirus disease 2019 in children presents with milder clinical manifestations than in adults. On the other hand, the presence of a wide range of inflammatory manifestations, including multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C), in the period after infection suggests a particular susceptibility of some children toward severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Both protective factors that prevent evolution to severe forms and risk factors for post-infectious conditions are likely to be found in age-related differences in the immune system. The prompt innate response with type I IFN production and the generation of neutralizing antibodies play a crucial role in containing the infection. The greater number of naive and regulatory cells in children helps to avoid the cytokine storm while the causes of the intense inflammatory response in MIS-C need to be elucidated. This review aims to analyze the main results of the recent literature assessing immune response to SARS-CoV-2 over the pediatric age group. We summarized such observations by dividing them into innate and acquired immunity, then reporting how altered immune responses can determine post-infectious conditions. IMPACT: The main immune markers of acute SARS-CoV-2 infection in children are summarized in this review. This paper reports a broad overview of age-related differences in the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 and emerging post-infection conditions. A summary of currently available therapies for the pediatric age group is provided.
General practice trainees' telehealth use during the COVID-19 pandemic: a cross-sectional study.$education;family practice;general practice;graduate;medical;telemedicine.$Prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic, remuneration was introduced for Australian general practice telehealth consultations. General practitioner (GP) trainees' telehealth use is of clinical, educational, and policy importance. The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence and associations of telehealth versus face-to-face consultations amongst Australian GP registrars (vocational GP trainees).
Online Grocery Shopping and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Electronic Benefit Transfer Card (EBT): Perceptions of Head Start Caregivers.$Head start caregivers;online SNAP EBT;online grocery shopping.$The objective was to explore perceptions of online grocery shopping and the online United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Electronic Benefit Transfer card (EBT) program among Head Start caregivers. Three focus groups were conducted between December 2019 and January 2020. Most participants hadn't tried online grocery shopping. Concerns included others choosing perishables, receiving wrong items, and inappropriate substitutes. Perceived benefits included saving time, preventing impulse buys, and eating healthier. Results have broad applicability in the current COVID-19 pandemic where online grocery shopping and the online SNAP EBT program have rapidly expanded across the United States.
Estimating immunity with mathematical models for SARS-CoV-2 after COVID-19 vaccination.$$Tools that can be used to estimate antibody waning following COVID-19 vaccinations can facilitate an understanding of the current immune status of the population. In this study, a two-compartment-based mathematical model is formulated to describe the dynamics of the anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody in healthy adults using serially measured waning antibody concentration data obtained in a prospective cohort study of 673 healthcare providers vaccinated with two doses of BNT162b2 vaccine. The datasets of 165 healthcare providers and 292 elderly patients with or without hemodialysis were used for external validation. Internal validation of the model demonstrated 97.0% accuracy, and external validation of the datasets of healthcare workers, hemodialysis patients, and nondialysis patients demonstrated 98.2%, 83.3%, and 83.8% accuracy, respectively. The internal and external validations demonstrated that this model also fits the data of various populations with or without underlying illnesses. Furthermore, using this model, we developed a smart device application that can rapidly calculate the timing of negative seroconversion.
The Impact of Conditional Cash Transfers on Poverty, Inequality, and Employment During COVID-19: A Case Study from Brazil.$COVID-19;Conditional cash transfer;Emergency aid;Inequality;Policy evaluation;Poverty.$The policy responses to the COVID-19 pandemic varied widely between countries. Understanding how effective these responses were is important to improve preparedness for future crises. This paper investigates how one of largest scale conditional cash transfer COVID relief policies in the world-the Brazilian Emergency Aid (EA)-impacted poverty, inequality, and the labor market amidst the public health crisis. We use fixed-effects estimators to analyze the impact of the EA on labor force participation, unemployment, poverty, and income at the household level. We find that inequality, measured by per capita household income, reduced to a historical low and was accompanied by substantial poverty declines-even as compared to pre-pandemic levels. Furthermore, our results suggest that the policy has effectively targeted those in most need-temporarily reducing historical racial inequalities-while not incentivizing reductions in labor force participation. Absent the policy, adverse shocks would have been significant and are likely to occur once the transfer is interrupted. We also observe that the policy was not enough to curb the spread of the virus, suggesting that cash transfers alone are insufficient to protect citizens.
Clinical features and severe outcome predictors of COVID-19 vaccine breakthrough infection among hospitalized patients: results from Egypt severe acute respiratory infections sentinel surveillance, 2021-2022.$Breakthrough infections;Egypt;Hospitalizations;Severe acute respiratory syndrome virus;Vaccines.$COVID-19 vaccines are effective against infections and outcomes; however, breakthrough infections (VBT) are increasingly reported, possibly due to waning of vaccine-induced immunity or emerging variants. Most studies have focused on determining VBT rate based on antibody levels. This study aims at describing clinical features, risks, time trends, and outcomes of COVID-19 VBT among hospitalized patients in Egypt.
Impacts of the COVID-19 Pandemic on the Infection Prevention and Control Field: Findings From Focus Groups Conducted with Association for Professionals in Infection Control & Epidemiology (APIC) Members in Fall 2021.$COVID-19;Vaccine;burnout;hopelessness;pandemic.$Emergence of the Delta variant in 2021 changed the pandemic landscape and led to healthcare surges across the US, despite availability of COVID-19 vaccine. Anecdotal information indicated that the infection prevention and control (IPC) field was changing during and due to the pandemic, but formal assessment was needed.
Telemedicine perceptions and experiences of socially vulnerable households during the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic: a qualitative study.$$Early in the COVID-19 pandemic, efforts to decrease risk of viral transmission triggered an abrupt shift from ambulatory health care delivery toward telemedicine. In this study, we explore the perceptions and experiences of telemedicine among socially vulnerable households and suggest strategies to increase equity in telemedicine access.
A dataset of governments' economic responses to COVID-19.$COVID-19;Economic measures;Fiscal policies;Panel data.$We introduce a new dataset of ten economic measures in percentage of gross domestic product implemented by governments worldwide between January 2020 and June 2021 to fight COVID-19. The measures coded include fiscal measures (wage support, cash transfers, in-kind transfers, tax cuts, sectorial support and credit schemes), tax deferrals, off-budget measures, and main policy rate cuts. The data can be used to study the impact of economic measures on different outcomes, and to understand the diffusion of economic policies during crises.
Relationship between Tuberculin Skin Test and COVID-19 Outcomes among Patients with COVID-19 in Zahedan, Iran.$BCG vaccine;COVID-19;Purified protein derivative;Tuberculin Skin Test.$Ecological studies showed that countries with national Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccination programs for tuberculosis prevention reported lower incidences of severe and fatal COVID-19 than countries without such programs. Several studies have demonstrated that the BCG vaccine can induce long-term trained Immunity in bone marrow progenitor cells. In this study, we tried to evaluate the relationship between tuberculin skin test results, BCG scar, and COVID-19 outcomes among patients with confirmed COVID-19.
Effect of Fluvoxamine on Interleukin-6 Levels in COVID-19 Patients Hospitalized in ICU: A Randomized Clinical Trial.$COVID-19;CRP;Cytokine;Fluvoxamine;IL-6;Interleukin-6.$Reviewing the laboratory studies, we observe some drugs with other specified applications, which cause serious inhibitory immune responses in the body. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) are among these drugs. Therefore, the current research aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of one of the SSRI drugs called fluvoxamine on the cytokine levels in COVID-19 patients.
Hybrid and Traditional Cardiac Rehabilitation in a Rural Area: A RETROSPECTIVE STUDY.$$Cardiac rehabilitation is a prescribed exercise intervention that reduces cardiovascular mortality, secondary events, and hospitalizations. Hybrid cardiac rehabilitation (HBCR) is an alternative method that overcomes barriers to participation, such as travel distance and transportation issues. To date, comparisons of HBCR and traditional cardiac rehabilitation (TCR) are limited to randomized controlled trials, which may influence outcomes due to supervision associated with clinical research. Coincidental to the COVID-19 pandemic, we investigated HBCR effectiveness (peak metabolic equivalents [peak METs]), resting heart rate (RHR), resting systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), body mass index (BMI), and depression outcomes (Patient Health Questionnaire-9 [PHQ-9]).
Machine learning prediction for COVID-19 disease severity at hospital admission.$COVID-19;Classification;Laboratory markers;Machine learning;Prediction;SARS-CoV-2;Scoring.$Early prognostication of patients hospitalized with COVID-19 who may require mechanical ventilation and have worse outcomes within 30 days of admission is useful for delivering appropriate clinical care and optimizing resource allocation.
Determinants of participation in cardiac telerehabilitation during the first surge of COVID-19.$Cardiac rehabilitation;digital health;participation rates;remote rehabilitation;telerehabilitation;willingness to participate.$Participation rates in cardiac rehabilitation (CR) are low. In multiple trials, telerehabilitation (TR) has been demonstrated to be effective. Still, real-life evidence is scarce. During the first surge of the COVID-19 pandemic our centre deployed a TR programme. This study aimed to characterise the patient population that had, for the first time, the opportunity to participate in cardiac TR and to analyse if there were determining factors for participation or non-participation in TR.
Another implementation science is possible: engaging an 'intelligent public' in knowledge translation.$Implementation science;evidence-based practice;knowledge economy;knowledge translation;social justice.$As the world contends with the COVID-19 pandemic, scientific expertise has permeated political discourse and the phrase 'following the science' is being used to build trust and justify government decision-making. This phrase reflects a problematic assumption that there is one objective science to follow and that the use of scientific knowledge in decision-making is inherently neutral. In this article, we examine more closely the dense and intricate relationships, values, politics, and interests that determine whose knowledge counts, who gets to speak, who is spoken for, and with what consequences, in the translation of scientific knowledge. Drawing key insights from Stengers' <i>Manifesto for Slow Science</i>, we argue that implementation science has a central role to play in problematising the historic dominance of certain voices and institutional structures that have come to symbolise trust, rigour, and knowledge. Yet to date, implementation science has tended to overlook these economic, social, historical, and political forces. Fraser's conception of social justice and Jasanoff's 'technologies of humility' are introduced as useful frameworks to extend the capacity of implementation science to engage the broader public as an 'intelligent public' in the translation of knowledge, during and beyond the pandemic.
Comparison of the capture-recapture method and seroprevalence survey for estimation of COVID-19 prevalence in the Islamic Republic of Iran.$COVID-19;Islamic Republic of Iran;capture–recapture;prevalence;seroprevalence.$Reliable estimation of prevalence is important for monitoring and evaluation of COVID-19 prevention programmes among at-risk populations.
Incidence, features and outcome of disease relapse after COVID-19 vaccination in patients with idiopathic inflammatory myopathies.$COVID-19 vaccination;Idiopathic inflammatory myopathies;flare;myositis;relapse.$Vaccination against coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is relatively safe in patients with idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM), however, myositis flares following vaccination have been poorly studied. We aimed to evaluate the frequency, features and outcomes of disease relapses in patients with IIM following COVID-19 vaccination.
Health financing and public financial management during the Covid-19 pandemic: Evidence from Pakistan as low-income country.$Covid-19;Pakistan;budgeting for health;health financing;public financial management;universal health coverage.$This article aims to explore the areas of misalignment between the public financial management (PFM) and health financing during the COVID-19 pandemic in Pakistan.
Safe Practice of Flexible Bronchoscopy for Non-COVID-19 Indications during the SARS-CoV-2 Pandemic.$Bronchoscopy;COVID-19;Protocol;Risk;SARS-CoV-2;Transmission.$Flexible bronchoscopy is an aerosol-generating procedure (AGP), which increases the risk of transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection. We aimed to find COVID-19 symptoms among healthcare workers (HCWs) involved in flexible bronchoscopies for non-COVID-19 indications during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic.
COVID-19 and beyond: Reassessing the role of thymosin alpha1 in lung infections.$COVID-19;Fungal infections;Lung infections;Thymosin;Tolerance.$The recent COVID-19 pandemic has catalyzed the attention of the scientific community to the long-standing issue of lower respiratory tract infections. The myriad of airborne bacterial, viral and fungal agents to which humans are constantly exposed represents a constant threat to susceptible individuals and bears the potential to reach a catastrophic scale when the ease of inter-individual transmission couples with a severe pathogenicity. While we might be past the threat of COVID-19, the risk of future outbreaks of respiratory infections is tangible and argues for a comprehensive assessment of the pathogenic mechanisms shared by airborne pathogens. On this regard, it is clear that the immune system play a major role in dictating the clinical course of the infection. A balanced immune response is required not only to disarm the pathogens, but also to prevent collateral tissue damage, thus moving at the interface between resistance to infection and tolerance. Thymosin alpha1 (Tα1), an endogenous thymic peptide, is increasingly being recognized for its ability to work as an immunoregulatory molecule able to balance a derailed immune response, working as immune stimulatory or immune suppressive in a context-dependent manner. In this review, we will take advantage from the recent work on the COVID-19 pandemic to reassess the role of Tα1 as a potential therapeutic molecule in lung infections caused by either defective or exaggerated immune responses. The elucidation of the immune regulatory mechanisms of Tα1 might open a new window of opportunity for the clinical translation of this enigmatic molecule and a potential new weapon in our arsenal against lung infections.
TiSA: TimeSeriesAnalysis-a pipeline for the analysis of longitudinal transcriptomics data.$$Improved transcriptomic sequencing technologies now make it possible to perform longitudinal experiments, thus generating a large amount of data. Currently, there are no dedicated or comprehensive methods for the analysis of these experiments. In this article, we describe our TimeSeries Analysis pipeline (TiSA) which combines differential gene expression, clustering based on recursive thresholding, and a functional enrichment analysis. Differential gene expression is performed for both the temporal and conditional axes. Clustering is performed on the identified differentially expressed genes, with each cluster being evaluated using a functional enrichment analysis. We show that TiSA can be used to analyse longitudinal transcriptomic data from both microarrays and RNA-seq, as well as small, large, and/or datasets with missing data points. The tested datasets ranged in complexity, some originating from cell lines while another was from a longitudinal experiment of severity in COVID-19 patients. We have also included custom figures to aid with the biological interpretation of the data, these plots include Principal Component Analyses, Multi Dimensional Scaling plots, functional enrichment dotplots, trajectory plots, and complex heatmaps showing the broad overview of results. To date, TiSA is the first pipeline to provide an easy solution to the analysis of longitudinal transcriptomics experiments.
Assessing the impacts of COVID-19 vaccination programme's timing and speed on health benefits, cost-effectiveness, and relative affordability in 27 African countries.$Affordability;COVID-19 | SARS-CoV-2;Decision-making;Economic evaluation;Mathematical models;Programme evaluation;Public health interventions;Vaccination.$The COVID-19 vaccine supply shortage in 2021 constrained roll-out efforts in Africa while populations experienced waves of epidemics. As supply improves, a key question is whether vaccination remains an impactful and cost-effective strategy given changes in the timing of implementation.
Politics, preparedness, or resources <i>Examining state responsiveness to the COVID-19 pandemic</i>.$COVID-19;U.S. states;reopening policy;state decision-making.$U.S. states are often the primary decision makers during a public health crisis. The COVID-19 pandemic led to several different reopening processes across states based on their unique characteristics. We analyze whether states' reopening policy decisions were driven by their public health preparedness, resources, COVID-19 impact, or state politics and political culture. To do so, we summarized state characteristics and compared them across three categories of reopening scores in a bivariate analysis using the chi-square or Fisher exact test for the categorical variables and a one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) for the continuous variables. A cumulative logit model was used to assess the primary research question. A significant factor in a state's reopening decision was the party of the governor, regardless of the party in control of the legislature, state political culture, public health preparedness, cumulative number of deaths per 100,000, and Opportunity Index score.
Long-term gastrointestinal outcomes of COVID-19.$$A comprehensive evaluation of the risks and 1-year burdens of gastrointestinal disorders in the post-acute phase of COVID-19 is needed but is not yet available. Here we use the US Department of Veterans Affairs national health care databases to build a cohort of 154,068 people with COVID-19, 5,638,795 contemporary controls, and 5,859,621 historical controls to estimate the risks and 1-year burdens of a set of pre-specified incident gastrointestinal outcomes. We show that beyond the first 30 days of infection, people with COVID-19 exhibited increased risks and 1-year burdens of incident gastrointestinal disorders spanning several disease categories including motility disorders, acid related disorders (dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, peptic ulcer disease), functional intestinal disorders, acute pancreatitis, hepatic and biliary disease. The risks were evident in people who were not hospitalized during the acute phase of COVID-19 and increased in a graded fashion across the severity spectrum of the acute phase of COVID-19 (non-hospitalized, hospitalized, and admitted to intensive care). The risks were consistent in comparisons including the COVID-19 vs the contemporary control group and COVID-19 vs the historical control group as the referent category. Altogether, our results show that people with SARS-CoV-2 infection are at increased risk of gastrointestinal disorders in the post-acute phase of COVID-19. Post-covid care should involve attention to gastrointestinal health and disease.
Exercise addiction symptoms and mental health during the forced exercises deprivation in greatest COVID-19 pandemic restrictions in Poland.$exercise addiction;mental health;withdrawal symptoms.$The paper describes the relationship between the symptoms of exercise addiction, behavioral strategies in situations of limited workout possibilities and mental health state in exercising individuals.
Rising CA-125 (Cancer Antigen 125) Levels: Cancer Recurrence or a Vaccine Reaction?$covid 19;elevated ca-125;mrna-covid-19 vaccine;ovarian cancer recurrence;tumor marker ca-125.$Cancer antigen 125 (CA-125) is a transmembrane glycoprotein, and it is known to be an essential biomarker in detecting treatment response and recurrence of ovarian cancer. It may also be used in monitoring colorectal cancer. It tends to rise in states of inflammation. Recent studies have demonstrated a temporary rise in CA-125 levels and other cancer biomarkers in patients suffering from coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) infection. However, in the following case report, we hope to shed light on a possible association between CA-125 levels and the COVID-19 mRNA vaccine. We present the case of a 79-year-old woman with moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the right adnexa, who had a transient increase in CA-125 levels after a period, during which she underwent treatment for COVID-19 infection and received the first dose of COVID-19 mRNA (Pfizer-BioNTech) vaccine with no evidence of disease progression on imaging.
A realist evaluation of the feasibility of a randomised controlled trial of a digital music and movement intervention for older people living in care homes.$Activity coordinators;Care homes;Digital physical activity;Feasibility;Realist evaluation;Residents.$Low physical activity in care home residents brings about negative mental health consequences, such as higher levels of depression and loneliness. With advancements in communication technology, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic, the feasibility and effectiveness of a randomised controlled trial (RCT) of a digital Physical Activity (PA) resource in care homes deserve more research attention. A realist evaluation was used to uncover influencing factors of a feasibility study implementation to inform how a digital music and movement programme would work and under what circumstances this would be most effective.
Interpretation of lung disease classification with light attention connected module.$Attention;ECA-Net;Grad-CAM;Lung disease;Respiratory sound;eXplainable AI.$Lung diseases lead to complications from obstructive diseases, and the COVID-19 pandemic has increased lung disease-related deaths. Medical practitioners use stethoscopes to diagnose lung disease. However, an artificial intelligence model capable of objective judgment is required since the experience and diagnosis of respiratory sounds differ. Therefore, in this study, we propose a lung disease classification model that uses an attention module and deep learning. Respiratory sounds were extracted using log-Mel spectrogram MFCC. Normal and five types of adventitious sounds were effectively classified by improving VGGish and adding a light attention connected module to which the efficient channel attention module (ECA-Net) was applied. The performance of the model was evaluated for accuracy, precision, sensitivity, specificity, f1-score, and balanced accuracy, which were 92.56%, 92.81%, 92.22%, 98.50%, 92.29%, and 95.4%, respectively. We confirmed high performance according to the attention effect. The classification causes of lung diseases were analyzed using gradient-weighted class activation mapping (Grad-CAM), and the performances of their models were compared using open lung sounds measured using a Littmann 3200 stethoscope. The experts' opinions were also included. Our results will contribute to the early diagnosis and interpretation of diseases in patients with lung disease by utilizing algorithms in smart medical stethoscopes.
Rates of Primary Care and Integrated Mental Health Telemedicine Visits Between Rural and Urban Veterans Affairs Beneficiaries Before and After the Onset of the COVID-19 Pandemic.$$Telemedicine can increase access to care, but uptake has been low among people living in rural areas. The Veterans Health Administration initially encouraged telemedicine uptake in rural areas, but telemedicine expansion efforts have broadened since the COVID-19 pandemic.
The research interest, capacity and culture of NHS staff in South East Scotland and changes in attitude to research following the pandemic: a cross-sectional survey.$Barriers;Health Research;Innovation;Motivators;Pandemic;Research Activity;Research Capacity;Research Capacity Development;Staff Development.$The UK National Health Service (NHS) is ideally placed to undertake research. The UK Government recently launched its vision of research within the NHS to improve research culture and activity amongst its staff. Currently, little is known about the research interest, capacity and culture of staff in one Health Board in South East Scotland and how their attitudes to research may have changed as a result of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic.
Prevalence and factors associated with insomnia among medical students in China during the COVID-19 pandemic: characterization and associated factors.$Anxiety;COVID-19;Depression;Epidemic;Insomnia;Medical students.$Insomnia has become an important issue in recent years. Insomnia is affected by many factors. Previous research has shown that during the COVID-19 pandemic, there would be a long-term negative effect on the mental health of medical college students. The state of medical college students' insomnia directly determines the results of medical education and the career development prospects of the medical students themselves. Therefore, it is very important to understand the insomnia situation of medical students in the post-epidemic era.
Prime-Pull Immunization of Mice with a BcfA-Adjuvanted Vaccine Elicits Sustained Mucosal Immunity That Prevents SARS-CoV-2 Infection and Pathology.$$Vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 that induce mucosal immunity capable of preventing infection and disease remain urgently needed. In this study, we demonstrate the efficacy of Bordetella colonization factor A (BcfA), a novel bacteria-derived protein adjuvant, in SARS-CoV-2 spike-based prime-pull immunizations. We show that i.m. priming of mice with an aluminum hydroxide- and BcfA-adjuvanted spike subunit vaccine, followed by a BcfA-adjuvanted mucosal booster, generated Th17-polarized CD4+ tissue-resident memory T cells and neutralizing Abs. Immunization with this heterologous vaccine prevented weight loss following challenge with mouse-adapted SARS-CoV-2 (MA10) and reduced viral replication in the respiratory tract. Histopathology showed a strong leukocyte and polymorphonuclear cell infiltrate without epithelial damage in mice immunized with BcfA-containing vaccines. Importantly, neutralizing Abs and tissue-resident memory T cells were maintained until 3 mo postbooster. Viral load in the nose of mice challenged with the MA10 virus at this time point was significantly reduced compared with naive challenged mice and mice immunized with an aluminum hydroxide-adjuvanted vaccine. We show that vaccines adjuvanted with alum and BcfA, delivered through a heterologous prime-pull regimen, provide sustained protection against SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Three-month follow-up after severe COVID-19 infection: are chest CT results associated with respiratory outcomes and respiratory recovery in COVID-19 patients?$COVID-19;CT severity score;Hyperinflammation.$CT Severity Score (CT-SS) can be used to assess the extent of severe coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19) pneumonia. Follow-up CT-SS in patients surviving COVID-19-associated hyperinflammation and its correlation with respiratory parameters remains unknown. This study aims to assess the association between CT-SS and respiratory outcomes, both in hospital and at three months after hospitalization.
Prophylactic and early outpatient treatment of COVID-19 in patients with kidney disease: considerations from the Immunonephrology Working Group of the European Renal Association (ERA-IWG).$COVID-19;antiviral therapy;kidney;prophylaxis;transplantation.$The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic led to rapid vaccine development and large global vaccination schemes. However, patients with immune-mediated kidney disease, chronic kidney diseases and kidney transplant recipients show high non-response rates to vaccination despite more than 3 vaccinations and, consequently, reduced viral clearance capacity when infected while receiving certain immunosuppressants, carrying an elevated risk for COVID-19 related morbidity and mortality. SARS-CoV-2 evolution has been characterized by the emergence of novel variants and spike mutations contributing to waning efficacy of neutralizing antibodies. To this end, the therapeutic field expands from vaccination towards a combined approach of immunization, pre-exposure prophylaxis and early post-exposure treatment using direct-acting antivirals and neutralizing monoclonal antibodies to treat early in the disease course and avoid hospitalization. This expert opinion paper from the Immunonephrology Working Group (IWG) of the European Renal Association (ERA) summarizes available prophylactic and/or early treatment options (i.e. neutralizing monoclonal antibodies and direct-acting antivirals) of SARS-CoV-2 infected patients with immune-mediated kidney disease, chronic kidney disease and kidney transplant recipients.
Exploring the longer-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on physical and mental health of people with inflammatory rheumatic diseases: a cross-sectional survey.$Anxiety;COVID-19;Depression;Gender;Mental health;Physical health.$To assess the longer term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the self-reported physical and mental health of people with inflammatory rheumatic diseases (IRDs).
Clinical Presentations of the Survivor and Non-survivor Hospitalized Patients with COVID-19 in the Golestan Province of Iran during the First Peak of the Epidemics.$COVID-19;Hospitalization;Imaging;Outcome;SARSCoV-2.$Considering the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic, which causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), we aimed to report the clinical features of 427 patients with COVID-19 and the outcomes after one-month admission to major teaching hospitals in the northeast of Iran.
Prolonged angioedema after Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine.$COVID-19;Immunological products and vaccines;Immunology.$This case reports a woman in her 40s with a history of allergic reaction to shellfish and iodine who presented with tongue angioedema, difficulty breathing and chest tightness after receiving the first dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech (BNT162b2) COVID-19 vaccine. Her angioedema remained for 10 days post-exposure to the vaccine, requiring 3 days of epinephrine infusion. She was discharged with advice to avoid further mRNA vaccines. This case highlights the increasing awareness needed of polyethylene glycol (PEG) allergy and the protracted nature of her reaction. A firm conclusion cannot be reached based on a single case report. More research is needed to understand whether there is a causal relationship between the BNT162b2 vaccine and PEG allergy. Awareness regarding PEG allergy and the complexities associated with it is important and needs to be raised due to its prevalent use in diverse industries.
Reducing societal impacts of SARS-CoV-2 interventions through subnational implementation.$epidemiology;global health;none.$To curb the initial spread of SARS-CoV-2, many countries relied on nation-wide implementation of non-pharmaceutical intervention measures, resulting in substantial socio-economic impacts. Potentially, subnational implementations might have had less of a societal impact, but comparable epidemiological impact. Here, using the first COVID-19 wave in the Netherlands as a case in point, we address this issue by developing a high-resolution analysis framework that uses a demographically-stratified population and a spatially-explicit, dynamic, individual contact-pattern based epidemiology, calibrated to hospital admissions data and mobility trends extracted from mobile phone signals and Google. We demonstrate how a subnational approach could achieve similar level of epidemiological control in terms of hospital admissions, while some parts of the country could stay open for a longer period. Our framework is exportable to other countries and settings, and may be used to develop policies on subnational approach as a better strategic choice for controlling future epidemics.
The effect of variation of individual infectiousness on SARS-CoV-2 transmission in households.$COVID-19;SARS-CoV-2;epidemiology;global health;households;human;infectiousness variation;transmission.$Quantifying variation of individual infectiousness is critical to inform disease control. Previous studies reported substantial heterogeneity in transmission of many infectious diseases including SARS-CoV-2. However, those results are difficult to interpret since the number of contacts is rarely considered in such approaches. Here, we analyze data from 17 SARS-CoV-2 household transmission studies conducted in periods dominated by ancestral strains, in which the number of contacts was known. By fitting individual-based household transmission models to these data, accounting for number of contacts and baseline transmission probabilities, the pooled estimate suggests that the 20% most infectious cases have 3.1-fold (95% confidence interval: 2.2- to 4.2-fold) higher infectiousness than average cases, which is consistent with the observed heterogeneity in viral shedding. Household data can inform the estimation of transmission heterogeneity, which is important for epidemic management.
Dataset of virtual and real-life visual experiences inside a museum: survey on visual perception with objective and subjective measures.$Illuminance measurements dataset;Lighting evaluation questionnaire;Monumental Charterhouse of Calci;Museums immersion;Occupant preference dataset;Occupants’ perception;Real-life visual experience;Virtual visual experience.$Occupants' perception of a space depends on their experience [1], [2], [3]. Four kinds of visiting experiences were carried out inside the Natural History Museum of the University of Pisa [4]. The museum is housed, together with the National Museum of the Charterhouse [5], inside the Monumental Charterhouse of Calci, near Pisa. Four of the permanent exhibition halls of the Museum were selected for the survey: Historical Gallery, Mammal's Hall, Ungulates' Gallery and Cetaceans' Gallery. A total of 117 participants were divided into four groups depending on their visiting experience: real-life, or virtual based respectively on videos, photos or computer-generated photorealistic images (renders). Experiences are compared. The comparison comprehends objective data (measured illuminance levels) and subjective data (questionnaire outcomes on the perception of the space). The illuminance levels were measured using a photoradiometer: datalogger Delta Ohm HD2102.2 equipped with LP 471 PHOT probe. The probe was placed 1.20 m above floor level, and it was set to measure vertical illuminance at 10 seconds intervals. To evaluate participants' perception of the space questionnaires were used. The presented data refer to the article: "Perception of light in museum environments: comparison between real-life and virtual visual experiences" [1]. This kind of data provides a base to assess if virtual kinds of experience can be implemented in museum environments as an alternative to the real-life experience, and to understand if such an implementation is detrimental or not in terms of participants' perception of the space. Virtual experiences can be particularly useful for spreading culture, making it accessible even in presence of moving restrictions for people, such as those in force today due to the SARS-CoV-2 emergency.
Predictors of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy among Jordanian older adults.$COVID-19;fear;hesitancy;older adults;vaccine.$We examined the predictive factors of COVID-19 vaccine hesitancy among Jordanian older adults.
Patient experiences of COVID-19-induced changes to methadone treatment in a large community-based opioid treatment program in Baltimore.$COVID-19 pandemic;Methadone treatment;Opioid Treatment Program (OTP).$Following the March 2020 federal declaration of a COVID-19 public health emergency, in line with recommendations for social distancing and decreased congregation, federal agencies issued sweeping regulation changes to facilitate access to medications for opioid use disorder (MOUD) treatment. These changes allowed patients new to treatment to receive multiple days of take-home medications (THM) and to use remote technology for treatment encounters-allowances that previously had been reserved exclusively for "stable" patients who met minimum adherence and time-in-treatment criteria. The impact of these changes on low-income, minoritized patients (frequently the largest recipients of opioid treatment program [OTP]-based addiction care), however, is not well characterized. We aimed to explore the experiences of patients who were enrolled in treatment prior to COVID-19 OTP regulation changes, with the goal of understanding patients' perceptions of the impact of these changes on treatment.
Advanced Stage Breast Cancer on Initial Presentation Following One Year Hiatus in Screening Mammography Due to COVID-19 Pandemic.$$Breast cancer is the second most common cancer and second leading cause of cancer death affecting women in the U.S., behind only skin and lung cancers, respectively. Modern screening mammography methods have contributed, in part, to a 40 percent decrease in breast cancer mortality since it was introduced in 1976. Therefore, regular breast cancer screening is vital to women's health. The COVID-19 Pandemic posed many challenges to healthcare systems worldwide. One challenge was the discontinuation of routine screening tests. We present a female patient who consistently participated in annual screening mammography and was confirmed negative for malignancy between 2014 and 2019. She did not get her mammogram in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and was subsequently diagnosed with stage IIIB breast cancer when she resumed her screening mammogram in 2021. This case illustrates one of the consequences of delayed breast cancer screening.
Evaluation of Claim Reports for Potential Impact of COVID-19 on Pediatric Dental Procedures.$$To evaluate whether the postponement of dental elective procedures at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic was associated with an increased number of simple dental extractions, and/or decreased restorative procedures by analyzing data obtained from state-funded insurance dental claims.
Co-infection of coronavirus disease 19 and cytomegalovirus in a kidney transplant recipient.$COVID‐19;ESRD;cytomegalovirus;kidney transplant.$It has been suggested that severe SARS-CoV-2 infection could be a risk factor for Herpesviridae reactivation due to the state of sepsis-associated immunosuppression. We presented the case of co-infection of CMV and COVID-19 infection in a 43-year-old woman with end-stage renal disease.
Psychological correlates of perceived loneliness in college students before and during the COVID-19 stay-at-home period: a longitudinal study.$Alexithymia;Anxiety;Depression;Psychological distress;SARS-CoV-2;Somatic symptoms.$Loneliness is increasingly acknowledged as a serious public health issue. This longitudinal study aimed to assess the extent to which psychological distress and alexithymia can predict loneliness among Italian college students before and one year after the COVID-19 outbreak.
The Effects of Vaccine Efficacy Information on Vaccination Intentions Through Perceived Response Efficacy and Hope.$$Response efficacy information indicating the effectiveness of a recommended behavior in risk reduction is an important component of health communication. For example, many messages regarding COVID-19 vaccines featured numerical vaccine efficacy rates in preventing infections, hospitalizations, and deaths. While the relationship between disease risk perceptions and fear has been well established, we know less about the psychological factors involved in communicating vaccine efficacy information, such as response efficacy perceptions and hope. This study examines the effects of numerical vaccine efficacy information and message framing on vaccination intentions and their relationship to perceived response efficacy and hope, using a fictitious infectious disease similar to COVID-19. Findings suggest that communicating a high efficacy rate of the vaccine in preventing severe illness increased perceived response efficacy, which in turn boosted vaccination intention directly and indirectly through increasing hope. Also, fear about the virus was positively associated with hope about the vaccine. Implications of using response efficacy information and hope appeals in health communication and vaccination promotion are discussed.
Evaluation of a continuing professional development strategy on COVID-19 for 10 000 health workers in Ghana: a two-pronged approach.$Continuing professional development;E-learning;Evaluation;Low-resource settings;Nursing education.$COVID-19 has created unprecedented challenges for health systems worldwide. Since the confirmation of the first COVID-19 case in Ghana in March 2020 Ghanian health workers have reported fear, stress, and low perceived preparedness to respond to COVID-19, with those who had not received adequate training at highest risk. Accordingly, the Paediatric Nursing Education Partnership COVID-19 Response project designed, implemented, and evaluated four open-access continuing professional development courses related to the pandemic, delivered through a two-pronged approach: e-learning and in-person.
Real-world data on the incidence and risk of Guillain-Barré syndrome following SARS-CoV-2 vaccination: a prospective surveillance study.$$Increasing evidence suggests an association between SARS-CoV-2 vaccines and Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS). Nevertheless, little is understood about the contributing risk factors and clinical characteristics of GBS post SARS-CoV-2 vaccination. In this prospective surveillance study of 38,828,691 SARS-CoV-2 vaccine doses administered from February 2021 to March 2022 in the Gyeonggi Province, South Korea, 55 cases of GBS were reported post vaccination. We estimated the incidence rate of GBS per million doses and the incidence rate ratio for the vaccine dose, mechanism, age, and sex. Additionally, we compared the clinical characteristics of GBS following mRNA-based and viral vector-based vaccinations. The overall incidence of GBS following SARS-CoV-2 vaccination was 1.42 per million doses. Viral vector-based vaccines were associated with a higher risk of GBS. Men were more likely to develop GBS than women. The third dose of vaccine was associated with a lower risk of developing GBS. Classic sensorimotor and pure motor subtypes were the predominant clinical subtypes, and demyelinating type was the predominant electrodiagnostic subtype. The initial dose of viral-vector based vaccine and later doses of mRNA-based vaccine were associated with GBS, respectively. GBS following SARS-CoV-2 vaccination may not be clinically distinct. However, physicians should pay close attention to the classic presentation of GBS in men receiving an initial dose of viral vector-based SARS-CoV-2 vaccines.
Pediatric Outpatient Occupational Therapy: Transitioning From In-Person Services to Telehealth.$occupational therapy;pediatrics;vulnerable populations.$The COVID-19 pandemic necessitated rapid adoption of telehealth for outpatient pediatric occupational therapy practice. The dose of therapy may have varied across diagnostic and geographical groups despite efforts to ensure access for all patients. The objective of the study was to describe the visit length of outpatient pediatric occupational therapy practice for three diagnostic groups at one institution both during and prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Retrospective review of electronic health records for two time periods using both practitioner-entered and telecommunications data. Data were analyzed using descriptive statistics and generalized linear mixed model. Prior to the pandemic, average treatment length did not vary by primary diagnosis. During the pandemic, average visit length varied by primary diagnosis, with feeding disorder (FD) visits significantly shorter than cerebral palsy (CP) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD) visits. During the pandemic, visit length was associated with rurality for the whole sample and for patients with ASD and CP, but not FD. Patients with FD may have been seen for shorter durations during telehealth visits. The technology gap may affect services for patients living in rural communities.
Effect of Past Chlamydophila pneumoniae Infection on the Short-Time Mortality of COVID-19: A Retrospective Cohort Study.$antibody;chlamydophila pneumoniae;covid-19;persistent infection;retrospective cohort study;vascular disease.$Although <i>Chlamydophila pneumoniae</i> (CP)is known to play a role in atherosclerosis and endothelial injury, its past infection on the mortality of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), which was also reported to be a vascular disease, remains unknown.
The COVID-19 pandemic's true death toll in Iran after two years: an interrupted time series analysis of weekly all-cause mortality data.$COVID-19;Interrupted Time Series Analysis;Iran;Mortality.$This study aimed to investigate overall and age group/region/sex-specific excess all-cause mortality from the inception of the COVID-19 pandemic in Iran until February 2022.
Quality of Life of early-stage breast-cancer patients diagnosed with COVID-19 in the first three waves of the epidemic treated in the Spanish region of Navarre.$Breast;COVID-19;Cancer;EORTC;Oncology;Quality of Life.$Objectives To describe the Quality of Life (QOL) of breast-cancer patients diagnosed with COVID-19 and analyse its evolution, compare the QOL of these patients according to the COVID-19 wave in which they were diagnosed, and examine the clinical and demographic determinants of QOL. Methods A total of 260 patients with breast cancer (90.8% I-III stages) and COVID-19 (85% light/moderate) were included (February-September 2021) in this study. Most patients were receiving anticancer treatment (mainly hormonotherapy). Patients were grouped according to the date of COVID-19 diagnosis: first wave (March-May 2020, 85 patients), second wave (June-December 2020, 107 patients) and third wave (January-September 2021, 68 patients). QOL was assessed ten months, seven months, and two weeks after these dates, respectively. Patients completed QLQ-C30, QLQ-BR45, and Oslo COVID-19 QLQ-PW80 twice over four months. Patients >65 also completed QLQ-ELD14. The QOL of each group and changes in QOL for the whole sample were compared (non-parametric tests). Multivariate logistic regression identified patient characteristics related to (1) low global QOL and (2) changes in Global QOL between assessments. Results Moderate limitations (>30 points) appeared in the first assessment in Global QOL, sexual scales, three QLQ-ELD14 scales, and thirteen symptoms and emotional COVID-19 areas. Differences between the COVID-19 groups appeared in two QLQ-C30 areas and four QLQ-BR45 areas. QOL improvements between assessments appeared in six QLQ-C30, four QLQ-BR45 and eighteen COVID-19 questionnaire areas. The best multivariate model to explain global QOL combined emotional functioning, fatigue, endocrine treatment, gastrointestinal symptoms, and targeted therapy (R2=0.393). The best model to explain changes in global QOL combined physical and emotional functioning, malaise, and sore eyes (R2=0.575). Conclusions Patients with breast cancer and COVID-19 adapted well to illness. The few differences between wave-based groups (differences in follow-up notwithstanding) may have arisen because the second and third waves saw fewer COVID restrictions, more positive COVID information, and more vaccinated patients. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Why trust? A mixed-method investigation of the origins and meaning of trust during the COVID-19 lockdown in Denmark.$COVID-19;Denmark;identity;mixed-methods;trust.$Trust is highlighted as central to effective disease management. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Denmark seemed to embody this understanding. Characterizing the Danish response were high levels of public compliance with government regulations and restrictions coupled with high trust in the government and other members of society. In this article, we first revisit prior claims about the importance of trust in securing compliant citizen behaviour based on a weekly time-use survey that we conducted during the first weeks of the COVID-19 pandemic (2 April-18 May 2020). Analysis of activity episodes, rather than merely self-reported compliance, both reconfirms the importance of institutional trust and nuances prior suggestions of detrimental effects of trust in other citizens. These survey-based results are further augmented through thematic analysis of 21 in-depth interviews with respondents sampled from the survey participants. The qualitative analysis reveals two themes, the first focusing on trust in others in Danish society and the second on the history of trust in Denmark. Both themes are based on narratives layered in cultural, institutional and inter-personal levels and further underline that institutional and social trust are complementary and not countervailing. We conclude by discussing how our analysis suggests pathways towards an increased social contract between governments, institutions and individuals that might be of use during future global emergencies and to the overall functioning of democracies.
The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on rehabilitation services provided for cochlear implant recipients in Saudi Arabia.$COVID-19;adult;aural rehabilitation;cochlear implant;hearing loss;pandemic;pediatric.$This study examines the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on cochlear implantation (CI) recipients in Saudi Arabia. The impact was measured using the results of an online survey that investigated challenges related to access to re/habilitation and programming services, increased dependence on virtual interaction, and emotional impact.
Nationwide study of rates of reinfection with SARS-CoV-2 among adults in Kuwait.$COVID-19;Kuwait;SARS-CoV-2;adults;reinfection.$Data are scarce on differences in the rates of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) reinfection after the first infection.
Humans with inherited MyD88 and IRAK-4 deficiencies are predisposed to hypoxemic COVID-19 pneumonia.$$X-linked recessive deficiency of TLR7, a MyD88- and IRAK-4-dependent endosomal ssRNA sensor, impairs SARS-CoV-2 recognition and type I IFN production in plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs), thereby underlying hypoxemic COVID-19 pneumonia with high penetrance. We report 22 unvaccinated patients with autosomal recessive MyD88 or IRAK-4 deficiency infected with SARS-CoV-2 (mean age: 10.9 yr; 2 mo to 24 yr), originating from 17 kindreds from eight countries on three continents. 16 patients were hospitalized: six with moderate, four with severe, and six with critical pneumonia, one of whom died. The risk of hypoxemic pneumonia increased with age. The risk of invasive mechanical ventilation was also much greater than in age-matched controls from the general population (OR: 74.7, 95% CI: 26.8-207.8, P < 0.001). The patients' susceptibility to SARS-CoV-2 can be attributed to impaired TLR7-dependent type I IFN production by pDCs, which do not sense SARS-CoV-2 correctly. Patients with inherited MyD88 or IRAK-4 deficiency were long thought to be selectively vulnerable to pyogenic bacteria, but also have a high risk of hypoxemic COVID-19 pneumonia.
Exploration of how primary care models influence job satisfaction among primary care providers during the COVID-19 pandemic in New Brunswick: a descriptive and comparative study.$Models of care;Physician shortage;Primary care;Primary care providers;Recruitment;Retention.$The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted human resource gaps and physician shortages in healthcare systems in New Brunswick (NB), as evidenced by multiple healthcare service interruptions. In addition, the New Brunswick Health Council gathered data from citizens on the type of primary care models (i.e. physicians in solo practice, physicians in collaborative practice, and collaborative practice with physicians and nurse practitioners) they use as their usual place of care. To add to their survey's findings, our study aims to see how these different primary care models were associated with job satisfaction as reported by primary care providers.
Accessibility and Utilization of Telehealth Services During the COVID-19 Pandemic Among Medicare Beneficiaries by Diabetes Status.$$Due to the influence types of telehealth services (i.e., phone and/or video) can have on patient care and outcomes, we sought to examine factors associated with the types of telehealth services offered and used among Medicare beneficiaries. We analyzed the Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey COVID-19 Public Use File (<i>N</i> = 1,403 and <i>N</i> = 2,218 for individuals with and without diabetes, respectively) and performed multinomial logit models to examine factors (e.g., sociodemographics, comorbidities, digital access/knowledge) associated with types of telehealth services offered and used among beneficiaries aged ≥65 years by diabetes status. Medicare beneficiaries seemed to prefer using telehealth via phone than video. Regardless of diabetes status, having not previously participated in video or voice calls or conferencing can be a barrier to telehealth being offered and used via video for beneficiaries. For older adults with diabetes, disparities in accessibility of telehealth via video by income and languages spoken other than English were observed. [<i>Research in Gerontological Nursing, xx</i>(x), xx-xx.].
Anxiety and Stress Related to COVID-19 Among the Community Dwelling Older Adults Residing in the Largest Refugee Camp of the World.$COVID-19;COVID-19-related anxiety;Older adults;Perceived stress;Rohingya.$The current cross-sectional study was conducted among 864 older adults aged ≥ 60 years residing in Rohingya refugee camp through face-to-face interviews during November-December 2021. COVID-19-related anxiety was measured using the five-point Coronavirus Anxiety Scale (CAS) and perceived stress using the 10-point Perceived Stress Scale (PSS). The linear regression model identified the factors associated with COVID-19-related anxiety and perceived stress. The prevalence of COVID-19-related anxiety and perceived stress was 68% and 93%, respectively. The average COVID-19-related anxiety score expected to be significantly higher among those who were physically inactive, concerned about COVID-19, had a close friend/family member diagnosed with COVID-19, and had some difficulty in getting food and routine medical care during the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the average perceived stress score was expected to be significantly higher among those without partners, who were feeling overwhelmed by COVID-19, and who experienced COVID-19-related anxiety during the pandemic. The findings suggest providing immediate psychosocial support to older Rohingya adults.
Molnupiravir and risk of hospital admission or death in adults with covid-19: emulation of a randomized target trial using electronic health records.$$To emulate a randomized target trial to estimate the association between the antiviral drug molnupiravir and hospital admission or death in adults with SARS-CoV-2 infection in the community during the omicron predominant era who were at high risk of progression to severe covid-19.
Our clinical experiences in the earthquake victims who came to our university after the 2020 Aegean Sea earthquake during the COVID-19 pandemic.$$Earthquakes are natural disasters that threaten human life and cause loss of life and property in a very short time. In our study, we aim to carry out the medical analysis of the earthquake victims who came to our hospital after the Earthquake in the Aegean Sea and to share our clinical experiences.
Health Behaviours among Travellers Regarding Risk Compensation Following COVID-19 Vaccination in Taizhou, China.$$During the COVID-19 pandemic, public transport was restricted in many countries because of the transmission risk. According to the risk compensation theory, travellers post-COVID-19 vaccination may encounter higher risks; however, no real-world studies provide such evidence. Therefore, we conducted a survey to assess whether risk compensation would occur among travellers' health-related behaviours after COVID-19 vaccination, potentially aggravating the transmission of the virus.
Clinical Characteristics and Outcomes of Children With SARS-CoV-2 Infection During the Delta and Omicron Variant-Dominant Periods in Korea.$Adolescent;COVID-19;Child;SARS-CoV-2 Delta Variant;SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Variant;SARS-CoV-2 Variants.$Data on the clinical characteristics of pediatric patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) variant infection are limited. We aimed to evaluate the clinical features and outcomes of children with SARS-CoV-2 infection before and after omicron variant dominance in Korea.
ADHD Symptoms Increased During the Covid-19 Pandemic: A Meta-Analysis.$ADHD;Covid-19;adolescents;children;hyperactivity;impulsivity;inattention;meta-analysis;pandemic.$Emerging research suggests that the Covid-19 pandemic has disproportionately and adversely affected children with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). The purpose of this meta-analysis is to consolidate the findings from studies that examined changes in ADHD symptoms from before to during the pandemic.
Interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) limits lethality of SARS-CoV-2 in mice.$COVID-19;IFITM;IFITM3;SARS-CoV-2;interferon.$Interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) is an antiviral protein that alters cell membranes to block fusion of viruses. Conflicting reports identified opposing effects of IFITM3 on SARS-CoV-2 infection of cells, and its impact on viral pathogenesis in vivo remains unclear. Here, we show that IFITM3 knockout (KO) mice infected with SARS-CoV-2 experience extreme weight loss and lethality compared to mild infection in wild-type (WT) mice. KO mice have higher lung viral titers and increases in inflammatory cytokine levels, immune cell infiltration, and histopathology. Mechanistically, we observe disseminated viral antigen staining throughout the lung and pulmonary vasculature in KO mice, as well as increased heart infection, indicating that IFITM3 constrains dissemination of SARS-CoV-2. Global transcriptomic analysis of infected lungs shows upregulation of gene signatures associated with interferons, inflammation, and angiogenesis in KO versus WT animals, highlighting changes in lung gene expression programs that precede severe lung pathology and fatality. Our results establish IFITM3 KO mice as a new animal model for studying severe SARS-CoV-2 infection and overall demonstrate that IFITM3 is protective in SARS-CoV-2 infections in vivo.
World's First Experience of the Low-dose radionuclide inhalation therapy in the treatment of COVID-19-associated viral pneumonia: phase 1/2 clinical trial.$COVID-19;Low-dose;Radionuclide therapy;Radiopharmaceuticals;Sodium Pertechnetate Tc 99m;Technegas.$Previously, the 99mTc inhalation was used for pneumonia treatment that decreases inflammation and disease severity. We aimed to investigate the safety and effectiveness of carbon nanoparticles labeled with Technetium isotope (99mTc) in a form of ultradispersed aerosol in combination with standard COVID-19 therapy. The study was a randomized phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trial of low-dose radionuclide inhalation therapy for patients with COVID-19 related pneumonia.
Time of leaving work pregnancy results during COVID-19 pandemic. The MOACC-19 cohort from Spain.$COVID-19;Leave work;Low weight at birth;Pregnancy;Pregnancy control.$COVID-19 pandemic has changed the way pregnancies have been controlled as well as working conditions. In countries with paid leave of work, leaving earlier has been a relevant measure for controlling the pandemic. No study has been published on factors associated with earlier leaving work in pregnancy and the consequences it could have on pregnancy outcomes.
Pilot Testing of Virtual Simulation-Based Experiences in an Oncology Nursing Seminar.$$The coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19) pandemic challenged nurse educators to develop teaching strategies to engage students in a virtual classroom. This pilot study examined the effect of virtually delivered video-recorded (VDVR) simulation-based experiences (SBEs) with standardized participants on the management of clinical emergencies in patients and families affected by cancer on nursing student learning outcomes.
Functional outcomes in post Covid-19 patients with persistent dyspnea: multidisciplinary approach.$2D-STE-LA strain;Persistent dyspnea;Post Covid-19 syndrome.$Post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 (PASC) have emerged as a major health issue in patients who have previously been infected with Covid-19 virus.
Increased Prehospital Emergency Medical Service Time Interval and Nontransport Rate of Patients With Fever Using Emergency Medical Services Before and After COVID-19 in Busan, Korea.$COVID-19;Emergency Medical Services;Fever;Infant;Republic of Korea;Transportation.$In Korea, patients with fever have been preemptively isolated to isolation beds in the emergency department (ED) since the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic began. However, isolation beds were not always available, and transport delays or failure (nontransport), especially for infants, were reported in the media. Few studies have focused on delays and failure in transporting fever patients to the ED. Therefore, this study aimed to examine and compare the emergency medical service (EMS) time interval and nontransport rate of patients with fever using EMSs before and after COVID-19.
Chemical identification and indexing in full-text articles: an overview of the NLM-Chem track at BioCreative VII.$$The BioCreative National Library of Medicine (NLM)-Chem track calls for a community effort to fine-tune automated recognition of chemical names in the biomedical literature. Chemicals are one of the most searched biomedical entities in PubMed, and-as highlighted during the coronavirus disease 2019 pandemic-their identification may significantly advance research in multiple biomedical subfields. While previous community challenges focused on identifying chemical names mentioned in titles and abstracts, the full text contains valuable additional detail. We, therefore, organized the BioCreative NLM-Chem track as a community effort to address automated chemical entity recognition in full-text articles. The track consisted of two tasks: (i) chemical identification and (ii) chemical indexing. The chemical identification task required predicting all chemicals mentioned in recently published full-text articles, both span [i.e. named entity recognition (NER)] and normalization (i.e. entity linking), using Medical Subject Headings (MeSH). The chemical indexing task required identifying which chemicals reflect topics for each article and should therefore appear in the listing of MeSH terms for the document in the MEDLINE article indexing. This manuscript summarizes the BioCreative NLM-Chem track and post-challenge experiments. We received a total of 85 submissions from 17 teams worldwide. The highest performance achieved for the chemical identification task was 0.8672 F-score (0.8759 precision and 0.8587 recall) for strict NER performance and 0.8136 F-score (0.8621 precision and 0.7702 recall) for strict normalization performance. The highest performance achieved for the chemical indexing task was 0.6073 F-score (0.7417 precision and 0.5141 recall). This community challenge demonstrated that (i) the current substantial achievements in deep learning technologies can be utilized to improve automated prediction accuracy further and (ii) the chemical indexing task is substantially more challenging. We look forward to further developing biomedical text-mining methods to respond to the rapid growth of biomedical literature. The NLM-Chem track dataset and other challenge materials are publicly available at https://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pub/lu/BC7-NLM-Chem-track/. Database URL https://ftp.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pub/lu/BC7-NLM-Chem-track/.
The effects of COVID-19 on pediatric and adult solid organ transplant recipients and the emergence of telehealth.$COVID-19;solid organ transplant;telehealth.$The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and corresponding acute respiratory syndrome have affected all populations and led to millions of deaths worldwide. The pandemic disproportionately affected immunocompromised and immunosuppressed adult patients who had received solid organ transplants (SOTs). With the onset of the pandemic, transplant societies across the world recommended reducing SOT activities to avoid exposing immunosuppressed recipients. Due to the risk of COVID-19-related outcomes, SOT providers adapted the way they deliver care to their patients, leading to a reliance on telehealth. Telehealth has helped organ transplant programs continue treatment regimens while protecting patients and physicians from COVID-19 transmission. This review highlights the adverse effects of COVID-19 on transplant activities and summarizes the increased role of telehealth in the management of solid organ transplant recipients (SOTRs) in both pediatric and adult populations.
Views on increased federal access to state and local National Syndromic Surveillance Program data: a nominal group technique study with state and local epidemiologists.$Confidentiality;Policy;Privacy;Public health surveillance;Syndromic surveillance, data dissemination.$US public health authorities use syndromic surveillance to monitor and detect public health threats, conditions, and trends in near real-time. Nearly all US jurisdictions that conduct syndromic surveillance send their data to the National Syndromic Surveillance Program (NSSP), operated by the US. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. However, current data sharing agreements limit federal access to state and local NSSP data to only multi-state regional aggregations. This limitation was a significant challenge for the national response to COVID-19. This study seeks to understand state and local epidemiologists' views on increased federal access to state NSSP data and identify policy opportunities for public health data modernization.
Emerging triple-reassortant influenza C virus with household-associated infection during an influenza A(H3N2) outbreak, China, 2022.$China;Influenza C virus;family clustering;infection;triple reassortant.$Recent research have shown that influenza C virus (ICV) has a possible higher clinical impact than previously thought. But knowledge about ICV is limited compared with influenza A and B viruses, due to poor systematic surveillance and inability to propagate. Herein, a case infected with triple reassortant ICV was identified during an influenza A(H3N2) outbreak, which was the first report of ICV infection in mainland China. Phylogenetic analysis showed that this ICV was triple reassortant. Serological evidence revealed that the index case might be related to family-clustering infection. Therefore, it is essential to heighten surveillance for the prevalence and variation of ICV in China, during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Disparities in opioid use disorder-related hospital use among postpartum Virginia Medicaid members.$Health disparities;Maternal morbidity and mortality;Medications for opioid use disorder;Opioid use disorder;Postpartum.$The overdose crisis is increasingly revealing disparities in opioid use disorder (OUD) outcomes by race and ethnicity. Virginia, like other states, has witnessed drastic increases in overdose deaths. However, research has not described how the overdose crisis has impacted pregnant and postpartum Virginians. We report the prevalence of OUD-related hospital use during the first year postpartum among Virginia Medicaid members in the years preceding the COVID-19 pandemic. We secondarily assess how prenatal OUD treatment is associated with postpartum OUD-related hospital use.
Reduced neutralizing antibody response to SARS-CoV-2 vaccine booster dose in people living with HIV with severe immunosuppression.$CD4 T-cell counts;SARS-CoV-2;immune response;people living with HIV;vaccine.$To assess the immunogenicity of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines among PLWH with severe immunosuppression, after a booster dose.
EUROPEAN CANCER MORTALITY PREDICTIONS FOR THE YEAR 2023 WITH FOCUS ON LUNG CANCER.$Covid-19;Europe;cancer;lung cancer;mortality rates;prediction model.$We aimed to predict cancer mortality figures for 2023 for the European Union (EU-27), its five most populous countries, and the UK. We focused on mortality from lung cancer.
Epidemiology and molecular characteristics of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) among italian community-dwelling adults, 2021/22 season.$Adult population;RSV;RSV epidemiology;RSV molecular characteristics;Respiratory syncytial virus.$Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a leading cause of acute respiratory infections worldwide. While historically RSV research has been focused on children, data on RSV infection in adults are limited. The goal of this study was to establish the prevalence of RSV in community-dwelling Italian adults and analyze its genetic variability during the 2021/22 winter season.
Reactivation of herpesviruses during COVID-19: A systematic review and meta-analysis.$COVID-19;SARS-CoV-2;human herpesviruses.$To provide a comprehensive systematic review and meta-analysis regarding the cumulative incidence (incidence proportion) of human herpesvirus (HHV) reactivation among patients with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), we searched PubMed/MEDLINE, Web of Science, and EMBASE up to 25 September 2022, with no language restrictions. All interventional and observational studies enrolling patients with confirmed COVID-19 and providing data regarding HHV reactivation were included. The random-effects model was used in the meta-analyses. We included information from 32 studies. HHV reactivation was considered a positive polymerase chain reaction result taken at the time of COVID-19 infection. Most of the included patients were severe COVID-19 cases. The pooled cumulative incidence estimate was 38% (95% Confidence Intervals [CI], 28%-50%, I<sup>2</sup>  = 86%) for herpes simplex virus (HSV), 19% (95% CI, 13%-28%, I<sup>2</sup>  = 87%) for cytomegalovirus (CMV), 45% (95% CI, 28%-63%, I<sup>2</sup>  = 96%) for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), 18% (95% CI, 8%-35%) for human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6), 44% (95% CI, 32%-56%) for human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7), and 19% (95% CI, 14%-26%) for human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8). There was no evidence of funnel plot asymmetry based on visual inspection and Egger's regression test for the results of HSV (p = 0.84), CMV (p = 0.82), and EBV (p = 0.27) reactivation. In conclusion, the identification of HHV reactivation in severe COVID-19 patients is helpful in the management of patients as well as the prevention of complications. Further research is required to elucidate the interaction between HHVs and COVID-19. Systematic review registration: PROSPERO CRD42022321973.
A pilot trial of Thymalfasin (Ta1) to prevent covid-19 infection and morbidities in renal dialysis patients: Preliminary report.$COVID-19 prevention;Hemodialysis;Immunocompromised;Kidney dialysis;Thymalfasin;Thymosin alpha 1.$Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on hemodialysis (HD) are considered particularly susceptible to infection with SARS-CoV2 on the basis of the immunodeficiency associated with advanced age, comorbidity burden, medication use, and need for frequent visits to dialysis clinics. In prior studies, thymalfasin (thymosin alpha 1, Ta1) has been shown to enhance antibody response to influenza vaccine and reduce influenza infection in geriatric populations, including hemodialysis patients, when used as an adjunct to influenza vaccine. Early in the COVID-19 pandemic we speculated that administration of Ta1 to HD patients would result in reduced rate and severity of COVID-19 infection. We also hypothesized that HD patients treated with Ta1 who did become infected with COVID-19 would have a milder course of infection in terms of hospitalization rates, requirement for and length of ICU stays, requirement for mechanical ventilation, and survival. Further, we proposed that patients who avoided COVID-19 infection during the study would have decreased non-COVID-19 infections and hospitalizations compared to controls.
The role of immune activation and antigen persistence in acute and long COVID.$COVID-19;inflammation.$In late 2019, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) triggered the global coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Although most infections cause a self-limited syndrome comparable to other upper respiratory viral pathogens, a portion of individuals develop severe illness leading to substantial morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, an estimated 10%-20% of SARS-CoV-2 infections are followed by post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC), or long COVID. Long COVID is associated with a wide variety of clinical manifestations including cardiopulmonary complications, persistent fatigue, and neurocognitive dysfunction. Severe acute COVID-19 is associated with hyperactivation and increased inflammation, which may be an underlying cause of long COVID in a subset of individuals. However, the immunologic mechanisms driving long COVID development are still under investigation. Early in the pandemic, our group and others observed immune dysregulation persisted into convalescence after acute COVID-19. We subsequently observed persistent immune dysregulation in a cohort of individuals experiencing long COVID. We demonstrated increased SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4<sup>+</sup> and CD8<sup>+</sup> T-cell responses and antibody affinity in patients experiencing long COVID symptoms. These data suggest a portion of long COVID symptoms may be due to chronic immune activation and the presence of persistent SARS-CoV-2 antigen. This review summarizes the COVID-19 literature to date detailing acute COVID-19 and convalescence and how these observations relate to the development of long COVID. In addition, we discuss recent findings in support of persistent antigen and the evidence that this phenomenon contributes to local and systemic inflammation and the heterogeneous nature of clinical manifestations seen in long COVID.
COVID-19 impact on opioid overdose after jail release in Massachusetts.$$Release from incarceration is a high-risk period for opioid overdose. Concern about COVID-19 spread in jails led to early releases; it is unknown whether pandemic era releases of persons with opioid use disorder (OUD) contributed to increases in community overdose rates.
The role of the microbiota-gut-brain axis in post-acute COVID syndrome.$COVID;PASC;microbiota-gut-brain.$The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in the infection of hundreds of millions of individuals over the past three years, coupled with millions of deaths. Along with these more acute impacts of infection, a large subset of patients developed symptoms that collectively comprise "post-acute sequelae of COVID-19" (PASC, also known as long COVID), which can persist for months and maybe even years. In this review, we outline current knowledge on the role of impaired microbiota-gut-brain (MGB) axis signaling in the development of PASC and the potential mechanisms involved, which may lead to better understanding of disease progression and treatment options in the future.
Epidemiology of Asthma in Patients with COVID-19: Investigation of Respiratory Allergy as a Risk Factor for COVID-19 Severity.$Asthma;COVID-19;Coronavirus;Epidemiology.$The outcome of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is complicated by various comorbidities; asthma, a common chronic disease, may be considered one of these conditions. This study aimed to investigate the effect of asthma as a potential comorbid condition on the COVID-19 prognosis.
Trends in the Incidence of Eating Disorders Among Active Component Service Members, 2017 to 2021.$$From 2017 through 2021, a total of 2,454 active component U.S. military service members received incident diagnoses for 1 of the following eating disorders: anorexia nervosa (AN), bulimia nervosa (BN), binge eating disorder (BED), or "other/unspecified eating disorder" (OUED). The incidence rate of any eating disorder was 3.6 cases per 10,000 person-years (p-yrs). The case defining diagnoses OUED, BN, and BED accounted for nearly 89% of total incident cases. The incidence rate of any eating disorder among women was more than 8 times the rate among men. Overall rates were highest among service members under 30 years of age. Crude annual incidence rates of total eating disorders increased in 2021, following the COVID-19 pandemic. Increased prevalence of major life stressors and mental health conditions were reported on Periodic Health Assessment (PHA) forms completed in the 1-year period after an eating disorder diagnosis. These data suggest the need for increased attention to eating disorder prevention. Additionally, treatment programs could be warranted as continued effects of the COVID-19 pandemic are elucidated within the military population.
Nosocomial Omicron Outbreak in a Medical Ward During the Coronavirus Disease 2019 Pandemic.$COVID-19;Omicron variant;SARS-CoV-2;medical ward;nosocomial outbreak.$The Omicron variant of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is 2 to 3 times more contagious than the Delta variant and poses a new challenge in containing transmission in community and health care settings. Transmission in hospitals can cause nosocomial outbreak infections and affect patients and health care workers. This study describes a coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outbreak in a medical ward. The purpose of the investigation was to determine the transmission source of the outbreak, as well as the measures implemented to prevent and control it.
Comparison of vector elements and process conditions in transient and stable suspension HEK293 platforms using SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding domain as a model protein.$EBNA1;HEK293;Process development;Recombinant protein production;SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding domain (RBD);Viral vector production host.$Mammalian cell lines are frequently used as protein expression hosts because of their ability to correctly fold and assemble complex proteins, produce them at high titers, and confer post-translational modifications (PTMs) critical to proper function. Increasing demand for proteins with human-like PTMs, particularly viral proteins and vectors, have made human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells an increasingly popular host. The need to engineer more productive HEK293 platforms and the ongoing nature of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) pandemic presented an opportunity to study strategies to improve viral protein expression in transient and stable HEK293 platforms.
Trends in dental insurance claims in the United States in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic: A 3-year perspective (2019-2022).$SARS-CoV-2;dental care;health economics.$We showed in a previous analysis the patterns of disruption for private dental insurance claims in the United States caused by the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic in 2020. The present report examines trends during 2020 and 2021, that is, contrasting perspectives during 2019 with the acute phase of the pandemic in 2020, and 2021.
Characterizing the mental health and functioning of Canadian respiratory therapists during the COVID-19 pandemic.$Atención Sanitaria;COVID-19;PTSD;Respiratory therapists;Salud Mental;TEPT;Terapeutas Respiratorios;healthcare;mental health;医疗保健;呼吸治疗师;心理健康;新冠肺炎.$<b>Introduction:</b> Healthcare professionals (HCPs) appear to be at increased risk for negative psychological outcomes [e.g. depression, anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), moral distress] and associated impacts on functioning throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. HCPs working on designated COVID-19 units may be further impacted than their colleagues not on these units given added demands of patient care and risk of contracting COVID-19. Little is known, however, about the mental health and functioning of specific professional groups beyond nurses and physicians, including respiratory therapists (RTs), over the course of the pandemic. Accordingly, the purpose of the present study was to characterize the mental health and functioning of Canadian RTs and compare profiles between RTs working on and off designated COVID-19 units.<b>Methods:</b> Canadian RTs completed an online survey between February and June 2021, including demographic information (e.g. age, sex, gender,) and measures of depression, anxiety, stress, PTSD, moral distress and functional impairment. Descriptive statistics, correlation analyses and between-groups comparisons were conducted to characterize RTs and compare profiles between those on and off COVID-19 units.<b>Results:</b> Two hundred and eighteen (<i>N</i> = 218) RTs participated in this study. The estimated response rate was relatively low (6.2%) Approximately half of the sample endorsed clinically relevant symptoms of depression (52%), anxiety (51%) and stress (54%) and one in three (33%) screened positively for potential PTSD. All symptoms correlated positively with functional impairment (<i>p</i>'s < .05). RTs working on COVID-19 units reported significantly greater patient-related moral distress compared to those not on these units (<i>p</i> < .05).<b>Conclusion:</b> Moral distress and symptoms of depression, anxiety, stress and PTSD were prevalent among Canadian RTs and were associated with functional impacts. These results must be interpreted with caution given a low response rate, yet raise concern regarding the long-term impacts of pandemic service among RTs.
SARS-CoV-2 infection of kidney tissues in some severe and fatal cases of COVID-19.$COVID-19;SARS-CoV-2;acute tubular necrosis;glomerulosclerosis;kidneys;renal tissues.$Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection can lead to diverse clinical manifestations and pathologies that involve multiple organs. Even though the disease severity is manifested mainly in the respiratory tract, which is the primary target of SARS-CoV-2 infection, acute kidney injury in the form of acute tubular necrosis has also been noted in some COVID-19 cases. It is not entirely clear whether renal cells can be infected by the virus that might be involved in acute kidney disorder. In a recent publication by Radovic and colleagues (1) that has been selected as the editor's choice paper published in the Journal of Medical Virology, the authors provided strong histopathological and immunofluorescence evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection and tissue injury of renal parenchymal and tubular epithelial cells, which strongly suggest an active viral replication in the kidney of some severe and fatal COVID-19 cases, and to a lesser extent, a potential role for innate immune cells in viral infection and renal disease pathogenesis. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.
Near-real-time estimation of fossil fuel CO<sub>2</sub> emissions from China based on atmospheric observations on Hateruma and Yonaguni Islands, Japan.$Atmospheric CH4;Atmospheric CO2;COVID-19 lockdown;East Asian Monsoon;Fossil fuel CO2 emissions;Synoptic-scale variations.$We developed a near-real-time estimation method for temporal changes in fossil fuel CO<sub>2</sub> (FFCO<sub>2</sub>) emissions from China for 3 months [January, February, March (JFM)] based on atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> and CH<sub>4</sub> observations on Hateruma Island (HAT, 24.06° N, 123.81° E) and Yonaguni Island (YON, 24.47° N, 123.01° E), Japan. These two remote islands are in the downwind region of continental East Asia during winter because of the East Asian monsoon. Previous studies have revealed that monthly averages of synoptic-scale variability ratios of atmospheric CO<sub>2</sub> and CH<sub>4</sub> (ΔCO<sub>2</sub>/ΔCH<sub>4</sub>) observed at HAT and YON in JFM are sensitive to changes in continental emissions. From the analysis based on an atmospheric transport model with all components of CO<sub>2</sub> and CH<sub>4</sub> fluxes, we found that the ΔCO<sub>2</sub>/ΔCH<sub>4</sub> ratio was linearly related to the FFCO<sub>2</sub>/CH<sub>4</sub> emission ratio in China because calculating the variability ratio canceled out the transport influences. Using the simulated linear relationship, we converted the observed ΔCO<sub>2</sub>/ΔCH<sub>4</sub> ratios into FFCO<sub>2</sub>/CH<sub>4</sub> emission ratios in China. The change rates of the emission ratios for 2020-2022 were calculated relative to those for the preceding 9-year period (2011-2019), during which relatively stable ΔCO<sub>2</sub>/ΔCH<sub>4</sub> ratios were observed. These changes in the emission ratios can be read as FFCO<sub>2</sub> emission changes under the assumption of no interannual variations in CH<sub>4</sub> emissions and biospheric CO<sub>2</sub> fluxes for JFM. The resulting average changes in the FFCO<sub>2</sub> emissions in January, February, and March 2020 were 17 ± 8%, - 36 ± 7%, and - 12 ± 8%, respectively, (- 10 ± 9% for JFM overall) relative to 2011-2019. These results were generally consistent with previous estimates. The emission changes for January, February, and March were 18 ± 8%, - 2 ± 10%, and 29 ± 12%, respectively, in 2021 (15 ± 10% for JFM overall) and 20 ± 9%, - 3 ± 10%, and - 10 ± 9%, respectively, in 2022 (2 ± 9% for JFM overall). These results suggest that the FFCO<sub>2</sub> emissions from China rebounded to the normal level or set a new high record in early 2021 after a reduction during the COVID-19 lockdown. In addition, the estimated reduction in March 2022 might be attributed to the influence of a new wave of COVID-19 infections in Shanghai.
Autoimmune/inflammatory syndrome induced by adjuvants (ASIA) - past, present, and future implications.$ASIA;COVID-19;adjuvant;silicone;vaccine.$Adjuvants, as the name indicates, are adjoined material aimed to assist in functioning as when added to vaccines they are meant to boost the effect and strongly stimulate the immune system. The response of the immune system can be unpredictable, and the autoimmune/inflammatory syndrome induced by adjuvants (ASIA) was developed to address possible adverse reactions of an autoimmune and inflammatory type that may be caused by adjuvants. While ASIA, as a syndrome, was coined and defined in 2011; reports describing patients with vague and nonspecific clinical symptoms following vaccinations appeared much earlier. In other words, ASIA came to define, arrange, and unite the variety of symptoms, related to autoimmunity, caused not by the vaccine itself, rather by the adjuvant part of the vaccine such as aluminum, among others. Accordingly, the introduction of ASIA enabled better understanding, proper diagnosis, and early treatment of the disorder. Furthermore, ASIA was shown to be associated with almost all body systems and various rheumatic and autoimmune diseases such as SLE, APS, and systemic sclerosis. In addition, the correlation between COVID-19 and ASIA was noticed during the pandemic. In this review, we summarized the reported effects of adjuvants and medical literature before and after ASIA was defined, the several ways ASIA can manifest and impact different systems of the body, and the incidences of ASIA during the COVID-19 pandemic. It is important to clarify, that vaccines are among, if not the, most effective means of fighting infectious diseases however, we believe that vaccines manufacturing is not above criticism, particularly when it comes to added substances possessing a risk of side effects.
Cerebral Sinus Thrombosis and Immune Thrombocytopenia Post COVID-19 Vaccination: A Case Report and Narrative Review.$2019 novel coronavirus;post-covid 19 vaccine complications;thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (tts);vaccine-induced prothrombotic immune thrombocytopenia (vipit);vitt covid-19.$Vaccine-induced immune thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (VITT) following the adenoviral vector COVID-19 vaccine is a rare adverse event. Although the risk of VITT following the COVID-19 vaccine appears to be low, early diagnosis and management can be lifesaving. We present a case of VITT in a young female who presented with persistent headaches and fevers followed by anisocoria and right-sided hemiplegia. Initial imaging was unremarkable, and labs showed thrombocytopenia and elevated d-dimers. Repeat imaging revealed thrombosis in the left transverse and superior sagittal sinuses, and she was diagnosed with VITT. She received combined treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins and systemic anticoagulation, resulting in an increased platelet count and resolution of her neurological symptoms.
Audiological evaluation of the cochlear nerve with brainstem evoked response audiometry in patients with COVID-19.$COVID-19;SARS-CoV-2;brainstem evoked response audiometry;hearing loss;neuropathy.$In this clinical study, it was aimed to prospectively evaluate the cochlear nerve with brainstem evoked response audiometry (BERA) in terms of audiological ailments in patients with COVID-19. Although the relationship of COVID-19 with tinnitus and hearing loss has been investigated since the day this infectious respiratory disease emerged, its relationship with BERA has not been fully demonstrated from a neurological perspective.
COVID-19 vaccine acceptance and adherence to non-pharmaceutical interventions among employees of public transportations company in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.$Addis ababa;COVID-19;acceptance;public transportations.$This study examined the acceptability of the COVID-19 vaccines and measured adherence to non-pharmaceutical interventions among employees in public transportations in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. In a public transportation company-based cross-sectional study, a self-administered questionnaire or a structured face-to-face interview was used to obtain information about willingness to get vaccinated, adherence to recommended non-pharmaceutical interventions, and source and quality of information about COVID-19 vaccines. Overall, 23.8% of 412 responding employees were willing to receive a COVID-19 vaccine. A majority (75.2%) never used facemasks, had poor knowledge about COVID-19 vaccines (82.3%), and had the opinion not to be susceptible to COVID-19 (81.1%). Better education increased the odds of being willing to get vaccinated (OR = 3.28, CI: (1.24-8.63)), male sex (OR = 2.45 (1.08-5.58)), history of chronic disease (OR = 3.01 (1.38-6.56)), watching TV for information on COVID-19 (OR = 14.79 (2.53-86.62)) or considering COVID-19, a severe disease (OR = 9.12 (3.89-21.35)). In addition, the opinion that vaccination can prevent COVID-19, trust in the vaccines, and assuming COVID-19 has an impact at the workplace increased the odds to accept vaccination significantly. In contrast, poor knowledge about the COVID-19 vaccines reduced accepting vaccination significantly (OR = 0.20 (0.09-0.44)). Acceptance of COVID-19 vaccines among public transportations workers in Addis Ababa is very low, which may be due to insufficient knowledge about the vaccines, cultural factors, religious beliefs, and a lack of or distorted information about the disease. Therefore, stakeholders should provide credible and tailored information to transportation workers on the severity and impact of COVID-19 and inform them about the effectiveness of the vaccines.
Immune and coagulation profiles in 3 adults with multisystem inflammatory syndrome.$$There is a paucity of information on the cytokine, complement, endothelial activation, and coagulation profiles of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in adults (MIS-A), a rare but serious complication following recovery from SARS-CoV-2 infection. We aim to examine the immune biomarker and coagulation profiles in association with the clinical presentation and course of MIS-A.
Tracheal complications of mechanical ventilation for COVID-19: a plot twist for survivors.$$<b>Tracheal complications should be suspected in mechanically ventilated COVID-19 survivors with respiratory symptoms. Treatment requires a multimodal approach of interventional bronchoscopy and surgery with tight follow-up due to a high rate of restenosis.</b> https://bit.ly/3iw05xQ.
Feeding intolerance during prolonged prone position in overweight and obese patients with severe COVID-19.$$the aim of this study was to compare the incidence rate of feeding intolerance (FI) during supine (SP) or prone positioning (PP) in critically ill COVID-19 patients.
COVID -19: From the Molecular Mechanisms to Treatment.$COVID -19;Molecular Mechanisms;SARS-CoV-2;Treatment.$The 2019 novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) causes severe pneumonia called COVID-19 and leads to severe acute respiratory syndrome with a high mortality rate. The SARS-CoV-2 virus in the human body leads to jumpstarting immune reactions and multi-organ inflammation, which has poorer outcomes in the presence of predisposing conditions, including hypertension, dyslipidemia, dysglycemia, abnormal adiposity, and even endothelial dysfunction via biomolecular mechanisms. In addition, leucopenia, hypoxemia, and high levels of both cytokines and chemokines in the acute phase of this disease, as well as some abnormalities in chest CT images, were reported in most patients. The spike protein in SARS-CoV-2, the primary cell surface protein, helps the virus anchor and enter the human host cells. Additionally, new mutations have mainly happened for spike protein, which has promoted the infection's transmissibility and severity, which may influence manufactured vaccines' efficacy. The exact mechanisms of the pathogenesis, besides molecular aspects of COVID-19 related to the disease stages, are not well known. The altered molecular functions in the case of immune responses, including T CD4+, CD8+, and NK cells, besides the overactivity in other components and outstanding factors in cytokines like interleukin-2, were involved in severe cases of SARS-CoV-2. Accordingly, it is highly needed to identify the SARSCoV-2 biomolecular characteristics to help identify the pathogenesis of COVID-19. This study aimed to investigate the biomolecular aspects of SARSCoV-2 infection, focusing on novel SARS-CoV-2 variants and their effects on vaccine efficacy.
Risk of Coronavirus Disease 2019-Associated Pulmonary Aspergillosis Based on Corticosteroid Duration in Intensive Care Patients.$CAPA;COVID-19;aspergillosis;corticosteroids;critically ill.$Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)-associated pulmonary aspergillosis (CAPA) is a potential complication in critically ill COVID-19 patients. Corticosteroids are standard of care for hospitalized COVID-19 patients but carry an increased risk of secondary infections including CAPA. The objective of this study was to evaluate if duration of corticosteroid therapy ≤10 days versus >10 days affects the risk of developing CAPA.
The long-term impact of coronavirus disease 2019 on environmental health: a review study of the bi-directional effect.$COVID-19;Environment;SARS-CoV-2;Sustainability.$When health systems worldwide grapple with the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, its effect on the global environment is also a significant consideration factor. It is a two-way process where the pre-COVID climate factors influenced the landscape in which the disease proliferates globally and the consequences of the pandemic on our surroundings. The environmental health disparities will also have a long-lasting effect on public health response.
Bioinspired Antimicrobial PLA with Nanocones on the Surface for Rapid Deactivation of Omicron SARS-CoV-2.$SARS-CoV-2;copper;nanotopography;poly(lactic acid);surface.$Bioinspired bactericidal surfaces are artificial surfaces that mimic the nanotopography of insect wings and are capable of inhibiting microbial growth by a physicomechanical mechanism. The scientific community has considered them an alternative method to design polymers with surfaces that inhibit bacterial biofilm formation, suitable for self-disinfectant medical devices. In this contribution, poly(lactic acid) (PLA) with nanocone patterns was successfully produced by a novel two-step procedure involving copper plasma deposition followed by argon plasma etching. According to reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction tests, the bioinspired PLA nanostructures display antiviral performance to inactivate infectious Omicron severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 particles, reducing the amount of the viral genome to less than 4% in just 15 min due to a possible combined effect of mechanical and oxidative stress. The bioinspired antiviral PLA can be suitable for designing personal protection equipment to prevent the transmission of contagious viral diseases, such as Coronavirus Disease 2019.
Increased Prevalence of Overweight and Obesity and Incidence of Prediabetes and Type 2 Diabetes During the COVID-19 Pandemic, Active Component Service Members, U.S. Armed Forces, 2018 to 2021.$$This study evaluated trends in the prevalence of overweight, obesity, and diabetes among active component service members between 2018 and 2021, before and after the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. This study also investigated the incidence of prediabetes and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) diagnoses during the same period. Between 2018 and 2021, the prevalence of obesity among active component service members who completed a Periodic Health Assessment (PHA) increased from 16.1% to 18.8%. The incidence of prediabetes increased from 588.2 to 763.8 cases per 100,000 person-years (p-yrs), and the incidence of T2DM increased from 55.5 to 69.6 per 100,000 p-yrs. The largest relative increases in obesity prevalence were in the youngest (<30 years) age categories. Navy members and Hispanic service members experienced the largest absolute and relative increases in rates of new diabetes diagnoses. These findings indicate that during the COVID-19 pandemic active component service members experienced increased prevalence of obesity, prediabetes, and diabetes. Evaluation of lifestyle factors associated with these chronic diseases among service members may be useful to enhance deployment readiness and operational effectiveness.
A 16-month longitudinal investigation of risk and protective factors for mental health outcomes throughout three national lockdowns and a mass vaccination campaign: Evidence from a weighted Israeli sample during COVID-19.$Anxiety;COVID-19;Depression;Fatigue;Posttraumatic stress.$COVID-19 is an ongoing global crisis, with a multitude of factors that affect mental health worldwide. We explored potential predictors for the emergence and maintenance of depression, anxiety, and posttraumatic stress symptoms (PTSS) in the general population in Israel.
Isolation and Characterization of Anti-Mycobacterial Natural Products from a <i>Petrosia</i> sp. Marine Sponge.$$Tuberculosis (TB) is a dreadful infectious disease and a leading cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide, second in 2020 only to severe acute respiratory syndrome 2 (SARS-Cov-2). With limited therapeutic options available and a rise in multidrug-resistant tuberculosis cases, it is critical to develop antibiotic drugs that display novel mechanisms of action. Bioactivity-guided fractionation employing an Alamar blue assay for <i>Mycobacterium tuberculosis</i> strain H37Rv led to the isolation of duryne (<b>13</b>) from a marine sponge <i>Petrosia</i> sp. sampled in the Solomon Islands. Additionally, five new strongylophorine meroditerpene analogues (<b>1</b>-<b>5</b>) along with six known strongylophorines (<b>6</b>-<b>12</b>) were isolated from the bioactive fraction and characterized using MS and NMR spectroscopy, although only <b>13</b> exhibited antitubercular activity.
Autoantibodies against chemokines post-SARS-CoV-2 infection correlate with disease course.$$Infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 associates with diverse symptoms, which can persist for months. While antiviral antibodies are protective, those targeting interferons and other immune factors are associated with adverse coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) outcomes. Here we discovered that antibodies against specific chemokines were omnipresent post-COVID-19, were associated with favorable disease outcome and negatively correlated with the development of long COVID at 1 yr post-infection. Chemokine antibodies were also present in HIV-1 infection and autoimmune disorders, but they targeted different chemokines compared with COVID-19. Monoclonal antibodies derived from COVID-19 convalescents that bound to the chemokine N-loop impaired cell migration. Given the role of chemokines in orchestrating immune cell trafficking, naturally arising chemokine antibodies may modulate the inflammatory response and thus bear therapeutic potential.
Adapting a Counseling-Plus-mHealth Intervention for the Virtual Environment to Reduce Sexual and Reproductive Health Risk Among Young Women with Depression.$Adolescent;Depression;Intervention;Mental health;Sexual health;Sexual risk;Telehealth;Women;Young adult;mHealth.$MARSSI (Momentary Affect Regulation - Safer Sex Intervention) is a counseling-plus-mobile health (mhealth) intervention to reduce sexual and reproductive health (SRH) risks for women with depression and high-risk sexual behavior. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic limiting in-person care, we sought to develop the counseling and mhealth app onboarding for virtual implementation. A team with SRH, adolescent medicine, motivational interviewing, cognitive behavioral therapy, and technology expertise adapted the counseling through an iterative consensus process. We identified essential aspects of the counseling, specified the content so the counseling could be delivered in person or virtually with fidelity, and considered best practices for telehealth for the focus population. Virtual counseling retained key elements from in-person counseling while including enhancements with engaging visual and audio-video aids. Instructions and programming were developed to support virtual counseling delivery and onboarding for the mhealth app component of MARSSI. After testing the virtual format in mock sessions, we implemented a small-scale feasibility study in an adolescent medicine clinic with women with depressive symptoms and high-risk sexual behavior age 18-24 years (N = 9). Participants experienced minimal technical difficulties and expressed satisfaction with the virtual format, and all were able to complete app onboarding successfully. Expanding delivery options for SRH interventions to include virtual can improve access, particularly for populations with psychological and environmental barriers to care.
Public health crisis and risky road behaviors.$COVID-19;risk-taking behaviors;road safety;time-varying risk aversion;traffic violations.$This study investigates how exposure to riskier environments influences risky road behaviors, using the COVID-19 pandemic as a natural experiment. Utilizing administrative individual traffic violation records from Taipei, where neither mandatory lockdown nor mobility restrictions were imposed, we find that pandemic-induced risk decreased speeding violations and that the effect was transitory. However, no significant changes were observed concerning violations with a minimal risk of casualties, such as illegal parking. These findings suggest that experiencing a higher level of life-threatening risk discourages risky behaviors concerning human life but has little spillover effect on those concerning only financial costs.
Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program: an overview for the pediatric radiologist.$Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP);Health insurance;Medicaid;Reimbursement.$In terms of number of beneficiaries, Medicaid is the single largest health insurance program in the US. Along with the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Medicaid covers nearly half of all births and provides health insurance to nearly half of the children in the country. This article provides a broad introduction to Medicaid and CHIP for the pediatric radiologist with a special focus on topics relevant to pediatric imaging and population health. This includes an overview of Medicaid's structure and eligibility criteria and how it differs from Medicare. The paper examines the means-tested programs within the context of pediatric radiology, reviewing pertinent topics such as the rise of Medicaid managed care plans, Medicaid expansion, the effects of Medicaid on child health, and COVID-19. Beyond the basics of benefits coverage, pediatric radiologists should understand how Medicaid and CHIP financing and reimbursement affect the ability of pediatric practices, radiology groups, and hospitals to provide services for children in a sustainable manner. The paper concludes with an analysis of future opportunities for Medicaid and CHIP.
International Travel Vaccine Recommendations for Children.$$Children are at risk of contracting diseases while traveling internationally. Beyond the importance of receiving routine vaccinations, physicians should also discuss with parents the effectiveness of vaccination as a strategy to protect their child against disease before travel. This article (1) explores the universally recommended routine vaccines that are particularly important for children to be up to date before travel (ie, measles, mumps, rubella; hepatitis A and B; polio; meningococcal; coronavirus disease 2019 [COVID-19]; and influenza) and (2) explains the travel-specific vaccination recommendations (ie, dengue, cholera, typhoid, tick-borne encephalitis, yellow fever, Japanese encephalitis, and rabies). Physicians can encourage parents to consult the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for travel vaccine recommendations (https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel). Children must remain up to date on universally recommended vaccines and receive the appropriate vaccines before international travel to prevent serious illness and limit the spread of diseases in the United States. <b>[<i>Pediatr Ann</i>. 2023;52(3):e106-e113.]</b>.
Case Series: Unbiased Deep Sequencing Analysis of Acute Infectious Conjunctivitis in an Ambulatory Eye Center in Berkeley, California.$$Acute infectious conjunctivitis poses significant challenges to eye care providers. It can be highly transmissible and as etiology is often presumed, correct treatment and management can be difficult. This study utilizes unbiased deep sequencing to identify causative pathogens of infectious conjunctivitis, potentially allowing for improved approaches to diagnosis and management.
Innovations in peer review in scholarly publishing: a meta-summary.$innovation;meta-summary;peer review;review of reviews;scholarly publishing.$<b>Background:</b> There are currently numerous innovations in peer review and quality assurance in scholarly publishing. The Research on Research Institute conducted a programme of co-produced projects investigating these innovations. This literature review was part of one such project 'Experiments in peer review' which created an inventory and framework of peer review innovations. The aim of this literature review was to aid the development of the inventory by identifying innovations in peer review reported in the scholarly literature and by providing a summary of the different approaches. <b>Methods:</b> This meta-summary is based on data identified from Web of Science and Scopus limited from 2010 to 2021. A total of 247 papers were screened, with 6 review articles chosen for the focus of the literature review. Items were selected that described approaches to innovating peer review or illustrated examples.   <b>Results:</b> The summary of innovations are drawn from 6 review articles. The innovations are divided into three high-level categories: approaches to peer review, reviewer focussed initiatives and technology to support peer review with sub-categories of results presented in tabular form and summarised. A summary of all innovations found is also presented. <b>Conclusions:</b> From a simple synthesis of the review authors' conclusions, three key messages are presented: observations on current practice; authors' views on the implications of innovations in peer review; and calls for action in peer review research and practice.
Fidelity of implementing a competency-based nursing programme during the COVID-19 pandemic: A case study.$COVID-19;competency-based education;disruption;fidelity of implementation;nursing education.$The study describes the fidelity of implementing a competency-based nursing education (CBNE) programme during the COVID-19 pandemic in a low-resource setting.
Nasal administration of anti-CD3 mAb (Foralumab) downregulates <i>NKG7</i> and increases <i>TGFB1</i> and <i>GIMAP7</i> expression in T cells in subjects with COVID-19.$COVID-19;Foralumab;SARS-CoV-2;T cells;anti-CD3.$T cells are present in early stages of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection and play a major role in disease outcome and long-lasting immunity. Nasal administration of a fully human anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody (Foralumab) reduced lung inflammation as well as serum IL-6 and C-reactive protein in moderate cases of COVID-19. Using serum proteomics and RNA-sequencing, we investigated the immune changes in patients treated with nasal Foralumab. In a randomized trial, mild to moderate COVID-19 outpatients received nasal Foralumab (100 μg/d) given for 10 consecutive days and were compared to patients that did not receive Foralumab. We found that naïve-like T cells were increased in Foralumab-treated subjects and NGK7<sup>+</sup> effector T cells were reduced. <i>CCL5,</i> <i>IL32,</i> <i>CST7,</i> <i>GZMH,</i> <i>GZMB,</i> <i>GZMA,</i> <i>PRF1</i>, and <i>CCL4</i> gene expression were downregulated in T cells and <i>CASP1</i> was downregulated in T cells, monocytes, and B cells in subjects treated with Foralumab. In addition to the downregulation of effector features, an increase in <i>TGFB1</i> gene expression in cell types with known effector function was observed in Foralumab-treated subjects. We also found increased expression of GTP-binding gene <i>GIMAP7</i> in subjects treated with Foralumab. Rho/ROCK1, a downstream pathway of GTPases signaling was downregulated in Foralumab-treated individuals. <i>TGFB1,</i> <i>GIMAP7</i>, and <i>NKG7</i> transcriptomic changes observed in Foralumab-treated COVID-19 subjects were also observed in healthy volunteers, MS subjects, and mice treated with nasal anti-CD3. Our findings demonstrate that nasal Foralumab modulates the inflammatory response in COVID-19 and provides a novel avenue to treat the disease.
Fe-Fe Double-Atom Catalysts for Murine Coronavirus Disinfection: Nonradical Activation of Peroxides and Mechanisms of Virus Inactivation.$catalyst-mediated electron transfer;disinfection;double-atom catalyst;murine coronavirus;peroxymonosulfate.$Peroxides find broad applications for disinfecting environmental pathogens particularly in the COVID-19 pandemic; however, the extensive use of chemical disinfectants can threaten human health and ecosystems. To achieve robust and sustainable disinfection with minimal adverse impacts, we developed Fe single-atom and Fe-Fe double-atom catalysts for activating peroxymonosulfate (PMS). The Fe-Fe double-atom catalyst supported on sulfur-doped graphitic carbon nitride outperformed other catalysts for oxidation, and it activated PMS likely through a nonradical route of catalyst-mediated electron transfer. This Fe-Fe double-atom catalyst enhanced PMS disinfection kinetics for inactivating murine coronaviruses (i.e., murine hepatitis virus strain A59 (MHV-A59)) by 2.17-4.60 times when compared to PMS treatment alone in diverse environmental media including simulated saliva and freshwater. The molecular-level mechanism of MHV-A59 inactivation was also elucidated. Fe-Fe double-atom catalysis promoted the damage of not only viral proteins and genomes but also internalization, a key step of virus lifecycle in host cells, for enhancing the potency of PMS disinfection. For the first time, our study advances double-atom catalysis for environmental pathogen control and provides fundamental insights of murine coronavirus disinfection. Our work paves a new avenue of leveraging advanced materials for improving disinfection, sanitation, and hygiene practices and protecting public health.
The use of continuous positive airway pressure during the second and third waves of the COVID-19 pandemic.$$In a preliminary study during the first COVID-19 pandemic wave, we reported a high rate of success with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) in preventing death and invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV). That study, however, was too small to identify risk factors for mortality, barotrauma and impact on subsequent IMV. Thus, we re-evaluated the efficacy of the same CPAP protocol in a larger series of patients during second and third pandemic waves.
Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in Children.$$Multisystem inflammatory disease in children (MIS-C) is a condition typically seen 3 to 6 weeks after acute infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Believed to be a postinfection hyperinflammatory response, the clinical manifestation of this viral sequelae can vary significantly in severity and symptomatic presentation. Clinical prodrome includes persistent fever and dysfunction of at least two organ systems. Often developing after asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) infection, MIS-C is a diagnosis of exclusion that requires evaluation for other infectious or noninfectious etiology for symptoms. Vital sign instability, including fever, tachycardia, and hypotension; laboratory studies demonstrating elevated inflammatory markers and elevated cardiac markers; and positive SARS-CoV-2 polymerase chain reaction, SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, or exposure to someone with confirmed COVID-19 infection 4 to 6 weeks before clinical presentation are used to diagnose this condition. Skin and mucosal involvement, gastrointestinal symptoms, and neurologic manifestations are also commonly seen. An echocardiogram is indicated to evaluate for cardiac dysfunction, including but not limited to coronary artery enlargement, left ventricular dysfunction, arrythmias, or atrioventricular block. <b>[<i>Pediatr Ann</i>. 2023;52(3):e114-e121.]</b>.
Systemic lupus erythematosus flare during SARS-CoV-2 infection: Report of 3 cases presented during the fourth wave of the pandemic in Colombia.$COVID-19;autoimmunity;lupus nephritis;thrombocytopenia.$The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) virus has become a worldwide pandemic since first discovered in 2019. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) flare has been reported in the post-infectious period. In Colombia, the fourth pandemic wave started at the beginning of 2022 when we observed flare of 3 SLE patients during active infection.
HLA typing of patients who developed subacute thyroiditis and Graves' disease after SARS-CoV-2 vaccination: a case report.$COVID-19;Case report;Graves’ disease;HLA;SARS-CoV-2 vaccination;Subacute thyroiditis.$Cases of subacute thyroiditis (SAT) after severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) vaccination have been reported. A human leukocyte antigen (HLA) allele, HLA-B*35, appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of SAT.
Neurological complications of critically ill COVID-19 patients.$$COVID-19 and systemic critical illness are both associated with neurological complications. We provide an update on the diagnosis and critical care management of adult patients with neurological complications of COVID-19.
Population Subgroups at Risk of Unhealthy Changes in Food and Beverage Consumption During COVID-19 Lockdowns.$Alcohol drinking;COVID-19;Consumer behaviour;Diet;Health behaviour.$Understanding health behaviour changes during the COVID-19 pandemic can assist in developing strategies to promote healthy lifestyles at such times. The aim of this exploratory study was to examine whether the frequency of consuming unhealthy foods and beverages changed during lockdown and whether certain population subgroups were more likely to make such changes.
Anxiety as a mediator in the relationship between the socioeconomic impact of COVID-19 and quality of life: a cross-sectional study in Vietnam.$Anxiety;COVID-19 epidemic;quality of life;socioeconomic impact.$Previous studies have investigated the effects of the pandemic on quality of life; both economical and psychosocial effects were explored. Some studies also mentioned mediating factors as mechanisms in this relationship; however, the mediating role of anxiety has not been examined. The present study examined the mediating effects of anxiety on the relationship between socioeconomic impact of COVID-19 and quality of life. An online survey of 280 Vietnamese residents was conducted in the context of the pandemic outbreak. Anxiety was found to be a completely mediating variable in the association between the socioeconomic impact of the pandemic and quality of life during the lockdown period. This finding contributes to a better understanding of how the pandemic affects people's quality of life and serves as the foundation for lessening the negative effects of the epidemic on people's lives.
Protecting the public interest when regulating health professionals providing virtual care: a scoping review protocol.$Licensure;Patient safety;Professional regulation;Public interest;Telehealth;Telemedicine;Virtual care.$Virtual care is transforming the nature of healthcare, particularly with the accelerated shift to telehealth and virtual care during the COVID-19 pandemic. Health profession regulators face intense pressures to safely facilitate this type of healthcare while upholding their legislative mandate to protect the public. Challenges for health profession regulators have included providing practice guidance for virtual care, changing entry-to-practice requirements to include digital competencies, facilitating interjurisdictional virtual care through licensure and liability insurance requirements, and adapting disciplinary procedures. This scoping review will examine the literature on how the public interest is protected when regulating health professionals providing virtual care.
COVID-19 Vaccine Uptake, Acceptance, and Reasons for Vaccine Hesitancy: A Cross-Sectional Study Among Pregnant Women in Trinidad, West Indies.$COVID-19;Trinidad;hesitancy;pregnancy;uptake;vaccine.$Pregnant women are at greater risk for severe COVID-19 disease and are a priority group for vaccination. Trinidad and Tobago (TTO) introduced COVID-19 vaccination for pregnancy in August 2021, however uptake is presumed to be low. The objective was to determine the COVID-19 vaccine acceptance and uptake rates among pregnant women in TTO and reasons for vaccine hesitancy.
Epidemiologic and Clinical Features of <i>Campylobacter</i> Enteritis Before and During COVID-19 in Korea.$COVID-19;Campylobacter;Enteritis;Epidemiology.$With the increase in meals at home due to coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), the pattern and incidence of enteritis seemed to change. Some types of enteritis, such as <i>Campylobacter</i> enteritis, appear to have increased. Our study aimed to evaluate the change in the trend of enteritis, especially <i>Campylobacter</i> enteritis, before COVID-19 (2016-2019) and at the present time during COVID-19 in South Korea.
Relationships between leadership behaviour of nurse managers and nurses' levels of job satisfaction and compassion fatigue during the COVID-19 pandemic.$COVID-19 pandemic;compassion fatigue;job satisfaction;leadership;nurse managers;nurses.$To reveal the relationships between the leadership behaviour of nurse managers and nurses' levels of job satisfaction and compassion fatigue during the COVID-19 pandemic.
A case of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron reinfection resulting in a significant immunity boost in a paediatric patient affected by B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.$BA.1;BA.2;Immunocompromised paediatric patient;Omicron reinfection case report;SARS-CoV-2.$Since its emergence in November 2021, SARS-CoV-2 Omicron clade has quickly become dominant, due to its increased transmissibility and immune evasion. Different sublineages are currently circulating, which differ in mutations and deletions in regions of the SARS-CoV-2 genome implicated in the immune response. In May 2022, BA.1 and BA.2 were the most prevalent sublineages in Europe, both characterized by ability of evading natural acquired and vaccine-induced immunity and of escaping monoclonal antibodies neutralization.
Value of Laboratory Indicators in Predicting Pneumonia in Symptomatic COVID-19 Patients Infected with the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Variant.$COVID-19;D-dimer;Omicron;fibrinogen;neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio;pneumonia.$The pathogenicity of Omicron is different from that of the previous strains. The value of hematological indicators in patients at high risk of Omicron infection remains unclear. We need rapid, inexpensive and widely available biomarkers to guide the early detection of people at risk of pneumonia and to provide early intervention. We aimed to assess the value of hematological indicators as risk factors for pneumonia in symptomatic COVID-19 patients infected with the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron variant.
Coronavirus fear of contagion and compliance with social distancing measures: evidence for a sample of a Spanish university community.$Behavioural change;COVID-19;Compliance;Social distancing;Spain;University.$Social distancing measures have been one of the core pillars of the strategy against COVID-19 in all the countries. This study aims at understanding what motivates behaviours and compliance with social distancing measures among students and workers from a Spanish public university.
Risk factors of pneumothorax and pneumomediastinum in COVID-19: a matched case-control study.$COVID-19;Pneumomediastinum;Pneumothorax;Risk factors.$During the novel coronavirus disease-2019 pandemic, a considerable number of pneumothorax (PNX)/pneumomediastinum (PNM) associated with COVID-19 have been reported, and the incidence is higher in critically ill patients. Despite using a protective ventilation strategy, PNX/PNM still occurs in patients on invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV). This matched case-control study aims to identify the risk factors and clinical characteristics of PNX/PNM in COVID-19.
Presepsin as a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker of severe bacterial infections and COVID-19.$$We aimed to develop presepsin as a marker of diagnosis of severe infections of either bacterial and viral origin. The derivation cohort was recruited from 173 hospitalized patients with acute pancreatitis or post-operative fever or infection suspicion aggravated by at least one sign of the quick sequential organ failure assessment (qSOFA). The first validation cohort was recruited from 57 admissions at the emergency department with at least one qSOFA sign and the second validation cohort from 115 patients with COVID-19 pneumonia. Presepsin was measured in plasma by the PATHFAST assay. Concentrations more than 350 pg/ml had sensitivity 80.2% for sepsis diagnosis in the derivation cohort (adjusted odds ratio 4.47; p < 0.0001). In the derivation cohort, sensitivity for 28-day mortality prognosis was 91.5% (adjusted odds ratio 6.82; p: 0.001). Concentrations above 350 pg/ml had sensitivity 93.3% for the diagnosis of sepsis in the first validation cohort; this was 78.3% in the second validation cohort of COVID-19 aiming at the early diagnosis of acute respiratory distress syndrome necessitating mechanical ventilation. The respective sensitivity for 28-day mortality was 85.7% and 92.3%. Presepsin may be a universal biomarker for the diagnosis of severe infections of bacterial origin and prediction of unfavorable outcome.
Changes in lifestyle and body weight in children and adolescents during the COVID-19 pandemic: A representative survey of parents in Germany.$$The public restrictions taken during the COVID-19 pandemic have substantially affected lifestyle and health behavior of children and adolescents. In Germany, little is known how these changes influenced daily life in families with children and adolescents.
Higher plasma levels of thymosin-α1 are associated with a lower waning of humoral response after COVID-19 vaccination: an eight months follow-up study in a nursing home.$Antibody waning;BNT162b2 vaccine;Immunesenescence;Inflammaging;Magnitude and persistence of humoral response;Nursing home;RTL;Sj/β-TRECs ratio;Thymic-function;Thymosin-α1.$Older people achieve lower levels of antibody titers than younger populations after Covid-19 vaccination and show a marked waning humoral immunity over time, likely due to the senescence of the immune system. Nevertheless, age-related predictive factors of the waning humoral immune response to the vaccine have been scarcely explored. In a cohort of residents and healthcare workers from a nursing home that had received two doses of the BNT162b2 vaccine, we measured specific anti-S antibodies one (T1), four (T4), and eight (T8) months after receiving the second dose. Thymic-related functional markers, including thymic output, relative telomere length, and plasma thymosin-α1 levels, as well as immune cellular subsets, and biochemical and inflammatory biomarkers, were determined at T1, and tested for their associations with the magnitude of the vaccine response (T1) and the durability of such response both, at the short- (T1-T4) and the long-term (T1-T8). We aimed to identify age-related factors potentially associated with the magnitude and persistence of specific anti-S immunoglobulin G (IgG)-antibodies after COVID-19 vaccination in older people.
Pandemic Related Changes in Technology Use Among a Sample of Previously Hospitalized Older Adult New Yorkers: An Observational Study.$$The COVID-19 pandemic increased the importance of technology for all Americans, including older adults. Although a few studies have indicated that older adults might have increased their technology use during the COVID-19 pandemic, further research is needed to confirm these findings, especially among different populations, and using validated surveys. In particular, research on changes in technology use among previously hospitalized community-dwelling older adults, especially those with physical disability, is needed because older adults with multimorbidity and hospital associated deconditioning were a population greatly impacted by COVID-19 and related distancing measures. Obtaining knowledge regarding previously hospitalized older adults' technology use, before and during the pandemic, could inform the appropriateness of technology-based interventions for vulnerable older adults.
Virus versus humanity - Do vaccines tilt the scale?$$S Srinivasan in his article "The vaccine mandates judgment: Some reflections", in this journal, analyses a judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in summer this year [1]. Therein, he underscores significant points of interest, the logic behind them, a few points of contention, their scientific basis and areas where logic defies rationality and prudence. Nevertheless, certain relevant points about vaccination are overlooked in the article. Under the subheading, "Vaccine mandates and the right to privacy", the author states that the order "finally zeroes in on this proposition…and that is that the risk of transmission of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV-2) virus from unvaccinated individuals is almost on par with that from vaccinated persons". Therefore, when the immunisation does not serve the social purpose of stopping propagation of the infection, why should the authorities mandate people to accept vaccination? This is the argument put forth by the author.
Telehealth in the Military Health System: Impact, Obstacles, and Opportunities.$$The U.S. Military Health System (MHS) pioneered the use of telehealth in deployed environments in the early 1990s. However, its use in non-deployed environments historically lagged behind that of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) and comparable large civilian health systems, due to administrative, policy, and other obstacles that slowed or blocked its expansion in the MHS. A report was prepared in December 2016, which summarized past and then-present telehealth initiatives in the MHS; described the obstacles, opportunities, and policy environment; and provided three possible courses of action for expansion of telehealth in deployed and non-deployed settings.
Effects of school-level and area-level socio-economic factors on elementary school student COVID-19 infections: a population-based observational study.$COVID-19;health policy;public health.$To estimate the variability of the cumulative incidence of SARS-CoV-2 infections among elementary school students attributable to individual schools and/or their geographic areas, and to ascertain whether socio-economic characteristics of school populations and/or geographic areas may be predictive of this variability.
A Bayesian approach to estimating COVID-19 incidence and infection fatality rates.$Bayesian analysis;COVID-19;Mixture model;Modular inference;Post-stratification.$Naive estimates of incidence and infection fatality rates (IFR) of coronavirus disease 2019 suffer from a variety of biases, many of which relate to preferential testing. This has motivated epidemiologists from around the globe to conduct serosurveys that measure the immunity of individuals by testing for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the blood. These quantitative measures (titer values) are then used as a proxy for previous or current infection. However, statistical methods that use this data to its full potential have yet to be developed. Previous researchers have discretized these continuous values, discarding potentially useful information. In this article, we demonstrate how multivariate mixture models can be used in combination with post-stratification to estimate cumulative incidence and IFR in an approximate Bayesian framework without discretization. In doing so, we account for uncertainty from both the estimated number of infections and incomplete deaths data to provide estimates of IFR. This method is demonstrated using data from the Action to Beat Coronavirus erosurvey in Canada.
COVID-19 Vaccines for Children: An Update.$$The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has had a large effect on the pediatric population, with 16,000,000 cases and counting. Currently, there are two messenger RNA (mRNA)-based and a single adjuvanted, protein-based COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in children and adolescents in the United States. Multiple studies have highlighted that these vaccines are safe for use in children and adolescents and are effective at reducing COVID-19 infection and complications. Given the risk of the SARS-CoV-2 virus to the pediatric population and ongoing global viral transmission, it is advised that providers emphasize the value of COVID-19 vaccination for children and adolescents. <b>[<i>Pediatr Ann</i>. 2023;52(3):e83-e88.]</b>.
Sentiment analysis and emotion detection of post-COVID educational Tweets: Jordan case.$Deep learning;Education;Emotion detection;Jordan;Natural language processing.$Education evolved dramatically under Covid-19, and owing to the conditions, distant learning became mandatory. However, this has opened new realities to the educational business under the label of "Hybrid-Learning," where educational institutions are still using online learning in addition to face-to-face learning, which has changed people's lives and split their opinions and emotions. As a result, this study investigated the Jordanian community's perspectives and feelings on the transition from pure face-to-face education to blended education by examining related tweets in the post-COVID era. Specifically, using NLP Emotion detection and Sentiment Analysis approaches, as well as deep learning models. As a result of analyzing the collected tweets, 18.75% of studied Jordanian's community sample are dissatisfied (Anger and Hate), 21.25% are negative (Sad), 13% are Happy, and 24.50 percent are Neutral about it.
Acupuncture treatment for Covid-19-associated sensorineural hearing loss and tinnitus.$$Sudden sensorineural hearing loss (SSNHL) and tinnitus are prevalent among COVID-19 patients and post-COVID-19 individuals, yet not all of these patients exhibit favorable responses to steroid therapy. Acupuncture may offer potential therapeutic benefits for SSNHL and tinnitus associated with COVID-19.
From multiple streams to a torrent: A case study of food policymaking and innovations in New York during the COVID-19 emergency.$COVID-19 pandemic;Food policy;Legislation;Multiple streams;New York;Niche innovations.$The COVID-19 pandemic has had significant effects on urban and regional food systems. Local administrations worldwide have been challenged to design and implement policies to mitigate immediate food system disruptions while planning for longer-term equity and resilience. The fast pace and high degree of uncertainty of the pandemic have made systematic tracking and assessment of food system change and related policy responses arduous. To address this gap, this paper applies the multilevel perspective on sociotechnical transitions and the multiple streams framework on policy change to 16 months of food policy (March 2020 through June 2021) during the New York State-issued COVID-19 state of emergency, comprising more than 300 food policies advanced by New York City and State legislators and administrators. Content analysis of these policies revealed the most salient policy areas during this period, the status of legislation, and key programs and budget allocations, as well as local food governance and the organizational spaces within which food policy operates. The paper shows that food policy domains that gained prominence focused on support for food businesses and food workers and on ensuring and expanding food access through food security and nutrition policies. Most COVID-19 food policies were incremental and were limited to the duration of the emergency, yet the crisis allowed for enactment of novel policies that deviated from the common policy issues or the typical scale of changes proposed pre-pandemic. Taken together, and viewed through a multilevel and policy streams framework, the findings provide insight into the trajectory of food policymaking in New York during the pandemic and the areas that food justice activists, researchers, and policy makers should focus on as the COVID-19 pandemic is abated.
Successful Treatment of Encephalitis Following SARS-Cov-2 Infection: A Case Report.$COVID-19;Drowsiness;Encephalitis;SARS-CoV-2;Treatment.$The SARS-CoV-2 invades the cells by attachment of virus spike proteins (S1, S2) to cell membrane and engages angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), which is highly expressed in the epithelium of cerebral vasculature. Here, we describe a patient with encephalitis following SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Patterns of utilisation of specialist care after SARS-Cov-2 infection: a retrospective cohort study.$COVID-19;Clinical governance;EPIDEMIOLOGY;Organisation of health services;PUBLIC HEALTH.$To explore the pattern of health services utilisation of people who had had a documented SARS-Cov-2 infection.
Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine induces the production of cross-reactive antibodies against Trypanosoma cruzi proteins: A preliminary study.$COVID-19;Chagas disease;SARS-CoV-2;Trypanosoma cruzi;antibody test;diagnostic accuracy;serology.$To evaluate the presence of cross-reactivity by anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies induced by the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine against T. cruzi proteins in a screening test.
Getting back to normal? Identity and role disruptions among adults with Long COVID.$biographical disruption;chronic illness;contested conditions;identity;illness experience;support groups.$Long COVID is a novel chronic illness with a variety of symptoms that people who have labelled themselves 'long-haulers' experience for an extended duration following a COVID-19 infection. We draw on in-depth interviews conducted in March-April 2021 with 20 working-aged adults in the U.S. who self-identified as long-haulers to understand the consequences for identities. The results demonstrate that Long COVID has important consequences for identities and sense of self. Long-haulers described experiencing three stages of biographical disruptions: realising their illness experience as misaligned with sense of self and embodied, age-based expectations; facing challenges to identities and changes in social roles; and reconciling illness and identity in the context of an uncertain prognosis. It remains unclear how long-haulers will resolve biographical disruptions and identity conflicts, especially as scientific insights about this novel condition emerge. Such outcomes may depend largely on whether Long COVID remains a contested illness or medical knowledge progresses to improve their quality of life. For now, healthcare providers may approach Long COVID holistically to address the identity disruptions that long-haulers face as they manage the consequences of this chronic illness.
Ethical challenges of clinical trials with a repurposed drug in outbreaks.$Amantadine;Bioethics;COVID-19;Clinical trials;Drug repurposing.$Drug repurposing is a strategy of identifying new potential uses for already existing drugs. Many researchers adopted this method to identify treatment or prevention during the COVID-19 pandemic. However, despite the considerable number of repurposed drugs that were evaluated, only some of them were labeled for new indications. In this article, we present the case of amantadine, a drug commonly used in neurology that attracted new attention during the COVID-19 outbreak. This example illustrates some of the ethical challenges associated with the launch of clinical trials to evaluate already approved drugs. In our discussion, we follow the ethics framework for prioritization of COVID-19 clinical trials proposed by Michelle N Meyer and colleagues (2021). We focus on four criteria: social value, scientific validity, feasibility, and consolidation/collaboration. We claim that launching amantadine trials was ethically justified. Although the scientific value was anticipated to be low, unusually, the social value was expected to be high. This was because of significant social interest in the drug. In our view, this strongly supports the need for evidence to justify why the drug should not be prescribed or privately accessed by interested parties. Otherwise, a lack of evidence-based argument could enhance its uncontrolled use. With this paper, we join the discussion on the lessons learned from the pandemic. Our findings will help to improve future efforts to decide on the launch of clinical trials on approved drugs when dealing with the widespread off-label use of the drug.
Exploring the Effectiveness of Telehealth Simulation in a Standardized Patient Scenario.$$This study evaluated transitioning face-to-face standardized patient (SP) competencies for nurse practitioner (NP) students to telehealth SP (TSP) competencies. Given the effects of coronavirus disease 2019 on clinical nursing education, faculty need evidence-based strategies that offer flexibility and high-quality learning experiences for students.
Utilising telehealth to support exercise and physical activity in people with Parkinson disease: a program evaluation using mixed methods.$Exercise therapy;Parkinson disease;Physiotherapy;Telemedicine.$Physical activity and exercise play a key role in managing Parkinson disease. This study aimed to: 1) determine if physiotherapy supported by telehealth helped people with Parkinson disease (PwP) to adhere to a home-based exercise program and maintain their physical activity; and 2) understand their experiences of using telehealth during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Paediatric admissions with SARS-CoV-2 during the Delta and Omicron waves: an Australian single-centre retrospective study.$COVID-19;virology.$The clinical course of Australian children admitted to hospital with COVID-19 infection is not well understood, particularly over the Omicron period.
Geographically skewed recruitment and COVID-19 seroprevalence estimates: a cross-sectional serosurveillance study and mathematical modelling analysis.$COVID-19;epidemiology;information technology;public health;statistics & research methods.$Convenience sampling is an imperfect but important tool for seroprevalence studies. For COVID-19, local geographic variation in cases or vaccination can confound studies that rely on the geographically skewed recruitment inherent to convenience sampling. The objectives of this study were: (1) quantifying how geographically skewed recruitment influences SARS-CoV-2 seroprevalence estimates obtained via convenience sampling and (2) developing new methods that employ Global Positioning System (GPS)-derived foot traffic data to measure and minimise bias and uncertainty due to geographically skewed recruitment.
Data driven contagion risk management in low-income countries using machine learning applications with COVID-19 in South Asia.$$In the absence of real-time surveillance data, it is difficult to derive an early warning system and potential outbreak locations with the existing epidemiological models, especially in resource-constrained countries. We proposed a contagion risk index (CR-Index)-based on publicly available national statistics-founded on communicable disease spreadability vectors. Utilizing the daily COVID-19 data (positive cases and deaths) from 2020 to 2022, we developed country-specific and sub-national CR-Index for South Asia (India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh) and identified potential infection hotspots-aiding policymakers with efficient mitigation planning. Across the study period, the week-by-week and fixed-effects regression estimates demonstrate a strong correlation between the proposed CR-Index and sub-national (district-level) COVID-19 statistics. We validated the CR-Index using machine learning methods by evaluating the out-of-sample predictive performance. Machine learning driven validation showed that the CR-Index can correctly predict districts with high incidents of COVID-19 cases and deaths more than 85% of the time. This proposed CR-Index is a simple, replicable, and easily interpretable tool that can help low-income countries prioritize resource mobilization to contain the disease spread and associated crisis management with global relevance and applicability. This index can also help to contain future pandemics (and epidemics) and manage their far-reaching adverse consequences.
Trends in fetal and neonatal outcomes during the COVID-19 pandemic in Alabama.$$The current study evaluated the hypothesis that the COVID-19 pandemic is associated with higher stillbirth but lower neonatal mortality rates.
Interruptions in HIV Prevention and Treatment Due to the COVID-19 Pandemic: A Cross-sectional Study of Transgender and Gender Nonbinary Adults in the U.S.$$Transgender and gender non-binary (TNB) people have been disproportionately impacted by HIV and the COVID-19 pandemic. This study explored the prevalence of HIV prevention and treatment (HPT) interruptions during the pandemic and identified factors associated with these interruptions.
Exploration of California School Nurse perspectives on the impact of COVID-19.$mixed-methods research;moral distress;pandemic;school nurse.$To explore in a sample of school nurses (SN) in California the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on school nurse health services, how school nurses mitigated the impact of COVID-19, and moral distress levels among school nurses.
Adoption and Utilization of Social Media Among Adult and Pediatric Infectious Diseases Divisions and Fellowship Programs in the United States.$Facebook;Instagram;Twitter;infectious diseases fellowship;social media.$Social media (SoMe) is ubiquitous, but its adoption and utilization by infectious diseases (ID) divisions are poorly characterized in the United States.
Longitudinal factors associated with increased alcohol consumption in adults during the COVID-19 pandemic.$Adult;COVID;alcohol use change;binge drinking;pandemic.$<i>Background:</i> Alcohol is the most abused substance among adults in the United States. The COVID-19 pandemic impacted patterns of alcohol use, but data are conflicting, and previous studies are largely limited to cross-sectional analyses.<i>Objective:</i> This study aimed to longitudinally assess sociodemographic and psychological correlates of changes in three patterns of alcohol use (number of alcoholic drinks, drinking regularity, and binge drinking) during COVID-19.<i>Methods:</i> We studied changes in self-reported drinking behaviors in 222,195 Mayo Clinic patients over 21 years of age (58.1% female and 41.9% male) between April 1, 2019, and March 30, 2021. Logistic regression models were used to estimate associations between patient characteristics and change in alcohol consumption.<i>Results:</i> Sociodemographically younger age, White race, having a college degree, and living in a rural area were associated with increased alcohol use regularity (all <i>p</i> < .05). Younger age, male, White, high-school education or less, living in a more deprived neighborhood, smoking, and living in a rural area were associated with increases in number of alcohol drinks (all <i>p</i> ≤ .04) and binge drinking (all <i>p</i> ≤ .01). Increased anxiety scores were associated with increased number of drinks, while depression severity was associated with both increased drinking regularity and increased number of drinks (all <i>p</i> ≤ .02) independent of sociodemographic characteristics.<i>Conclusion:</i> Our study showed that both sociodemographic and psychological characteristics were associated with increased alcohol consumption patterns during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our study highlights specific target groups previously not described in the literature for alcohol interventions based on sociodemographic and psychological characteristics.